Ukraine’s Defense Forces have repelled enemy attacks near 11 settlements over the past day.

The relevant statement was made by the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine on  , an Ukrinform correspondent reports. According to the General Staff, Russian troops continue to focus their efforts on attempts to fully seize the Donetsk region and hold the occupied areas, as well as disrupt the active actions of Ukrainian forces in certain directions. The enemy opens fire on the positions of Ukrainian defenders along the contact line and conducts air reconnaissance. Russian invaders strike civil infrastructure and peaceful residential areas, violating international humanitarian law, and the laws and customs of war. The threat of air and missile strikes is persisting all over Ukraine. On September 29, 2022, Russian troops launched four missile strikes and four air strikes, and opened fire with multiple launch rocket system (MLRS) 28 times. Over 20 settlements came under enemy fire, namely Kramatorsk, Bakhmut, Kryvyi Rih, Dnipro, Mykolaiv, Nikopol, Pavlivka, Vysokopillia, Myrne. Over 10 civilians were injured in Russia’s attack on Zelenodolsk Thermal Power Plant (TPP). In the Volyn and Polissia directions, the situation remained rather unchanged. In other directions, Russian troops used tanks, mortars, cannon and rocket artillery to open fire as follows: in the Siverskyi direction – near the Chernihiv region’s Senkivka; in the Slobozhanskyi direction – near such settlements as Veterynarne, Sosnivka, Strilecha, Krasne, Hlyboke, Kolodiazne, Dvorichna, Hrushivka, Senkove and Oskil; in the Kramatorsk direction – near Novyi Myr, Katerynivka, Nove, Novoselivka, Bohorodychne, Pryshyb, Blakytni Ozera, Shchurove, Donetske, Staryi Karavan, Dibrova, Raihorodok, Ozerne, Zakitne and Verkhniokamianske; in the Bakhmut direction – on Rozdolivka, Vesele, Bilohorivka, Yakovlivka, Soledar, Bakhmutske, Bakhmut, Ivanovske, Vesela Dolyna, Odradivka, Zaitseve and Toretsk; in the Avdiivka direction – near Berdychi, Avdiivka, Pervomaiske, Opytne, Pisky and Marinka; in the Novopavlivka direction – on Vremivka, Velyka Novosilka, Novopil, Neskuchne and Novoukrainka; in the Zaporizhzhia direction – on Temyrivka, Yablukove, Uspenivka, Poltavka, Zaliznychne, Huliaipole, Charivne, Dorozhnianka, Kamianske, Mala Tokmachka, Bilohiria, Chervone. In the Southern Bug direction, over 35 settlements along the contact line were shelled with Russian tanks, mortars and cannon artillery, namely Nikopol, Vysokopillia, Arkhanhelske, Osokorivka, Ternivka, Bilohirka, Sukhyi Stavok, Blahodatne, Olhyne, Lymany, Pravdyne and Myrne. “The leadership of the Russian occupation forces continues to use all available means to restore the combat capacity of units that have suffered losses in battles in the territory of Ukraine. Thus, in the temporarily occupied areas of the Donetsk region, the so-called ‘local authorities’ are conscripting and training 250 more prisoners. In the coming days, they will be sent to supplement units on the front lines,” the General Staff noted. Russian invaders continue to suffer losses. In particular, enemy personnel and military equipment clusters were confirmed to have been struck near ​​the Kherson region’s Nova Kuban, resulting in the detonation of ammunition. The final losses are yet to be checked. In addition, Ukrainian forces inflicted fire damage on Russian occupiers near the Zaporizhzhia region’s Sofiivka, leaving 40 Russian troops injured and about 15 killed. Over 200 injured enemy troops have been delivered to health facilities in the Luhansk region’s Starobilsk in recent days. Over the past day, in order to provide support for ground forces, Ukraine’s air forces launched seven strikes. The enemy’s losses were confirmed as follows: one Russian strong point, 10 military equipment clusters six air defense missile systems. In addition, the Ukrainian anti-aircraft defense units shot down one enemy unmanned aerial vehicle. During the day, Ukraine’s missile and artillery units struck four Russian command posts, 15 personnel and military equipment clusters, and six ammunition and fuel depots. mk 