A delegation from the United States of America visited the sites of war crimes committed by Russian troops in Kyiv region.

As the Kyiv region police  , the foreign delegation inspected the places of mass murders of Ukrainians, residential areas destroyed by the Russian army in Kyiv region. A delegation member, famous host and writer Mitzi Perdue was shocked by the scale of the Russian war crimes, the consequences of the atrocities of the aggressors, and the destruction caused to the Kyiv region. 
             
			 The foreigners visited the sites of large-scale murderers of civilians by the Russian army in the territory of the Church of Andrew the First-Called, where more than 100 Ukrainians were buried. The delegation also visited the destroyed residential quarter "Irpinski Lypky" and the burnt down training center in Bucha district. The enemy destroyed practically all the buildings there. Moreover, the delegation visited the police buildings destroyed by the Russians in Kyiv region. It is noted that the Russian military bombed police stations, smashed cars, destroyed infrastructure and video surveillance systems. "Law enforcement officers continue to detect and document war crimes committed by the Russian Federation. With joint efforts, we will certainly identify all the guilty who mercilessly tortured and killed the civilian population. Everyone will be taken to court and held to account for their crimes," said Andrii Nebytov, head of the Kyiv Region Police Department. The foreign delegation also visited Chornobyl. The town was one of the first to be invaded by the Russians in February. Evidence of the aggressor's invasion is still visible here. The U.S. delegation paid special attention to combating human trafficking during martial law. They also discussed the implementation of measures to detect and combat domestic violence. As reported, Irpin, Bucha, Hostomel and the entire Kyiv region were liberated from the Russian invaders at the beginning of April. Mass destruction and brutal murders of civilians by the Russians were recorded in the liberated towns and villages. ol 