The enemy is trying to hold the temporarily captured territories, focusing its efforts on attempts to disrupt the actions of the Ukrainian Forces in certain directions and conducting an offensive operation in the Bakhmut and Avdiivka directions. Meanwhile, the Russian troops are regrouping in the South Buh direction.

That’s according to a morning  by the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Ukrinform reports. The enemy is shelling the positions of Ukrainian troops along the contact line, while fortifying defensive positions and lines in separate directions and conducting aerial reconnaissance. They also continue to inflict strikes on civilian infrastructure and households, violating international humanitarian law, laws and customs of war. There remains the threat of air and missile strikes across the entire territory of Ukraine. In the past day, the occupiers launched eight missile and 15 air strikes, also employing multiple rocket launch systems 70 times. Three X-22 cruise missiles never reached their targets. Civilian objects and population of more than 25 settlements came under enemy fire, including in Novomykhailivka, Zaliznychne, Spirne, Davydiv Brid, Blahodativka, and Myrne. The strikes on Kharkiv, Zaporizhia, Mykolaiv, and Nikopol were carried out solely with the aim of destroying civilian homes and critical infrastructure. The situation in the Volyn and Polissia directions has not changed significantly. The enemy opened fired in other directions, too: in the Siversky direction – using barrel artillery, in the areas of Boyaro-Lezhachi, Mezenivka, and Ryzhivka of Sumy region; in the Slobozhansky direction - using tanks, mortars, and jet artillery, in the areas of Dvorichne, Zarubivka, Vovchansk, and Hatyshche; in the Kramatorsk direction – using artillery of various types, in the areas of Spirne, Bilohorivka, Verkhnokamianske, Serebrianka, and Rozdolivka; in the Bakhmut direction, the enemy attacked the areas of Soledar, Bakhmut, Chasiv Yar, Kurdyumivka, Opytne, Zaitseve, and New York; in the Avdiivka direction, the Maryinka, Shakhtarske, Vodiane, and Novomykhailivka districts were shelled by Russian tanks, mortars, barrel and jet artillery. In the Novopavlivka and Zaporizhia directions, the infrastructure in the areas of Novoukrayinka, Novodanilivka, Chervone, Novosilka, Poltavka, and Mali Shcherbaki was damaged by enemy shelling. In the South Buh direction, more than 25 settlements along the entire line of contact were targeted by enemy fire. Over the past day, units of Ukraine’s Defense Forces repelled Russian attacks in the areas of Vyimka, Krasne, Bakhmut, Mayorsk, Vesele, Pobyeda, Nevelske, Kamianka, and Ternovi Pody. According to available intelligence, some 500 mobilized criminals have arrived to reinforce the Russian units fighting in the temporarily occupied territory of Donetsk region. Officers from among former Russian law enforcement have been appointed commanders of the newly arrived groups. The Russian command ordered that all mobile devices be seized from the newly-arrived forces. Ukraine’s Air Force carried out 23 strikes over the past 24 hours. It has been confirmed that a Russianstronghold, 15 weapons and military equipment clusters, as well as seven anti-aircraft missile systems have been hit. In addition, Ukraine’s air defense shot down more than 20 enemy UAVs in various areas. Among them are five Orlan-10s, 15 Shahed-136s, and a Mohajer-6. Over the past day, missile forces and artillery hit five enemy manpower and equipment clusters, five air defence positions, two artillery guns, an ammunition depot, and a river crossing. 