The Armed Forces of Ukraine have repelled attacks by Russian invasion troops in the areas of Mayorsk, New York, Zaytseve, Nevelske, and Pobieda.

That’s according to the  of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Ukrinform reports citing an evening war update. "The enemy is trying to hold the temporarily captured ground, focusing its efforts on trying to disrupt the actions of Defense Forces in certain directions. The enemy is shelling the positions of our troops along the contact line, conducting aerial reconnaissance. It is striking the civilian infrastructure and civilian homes... There remains a threat of air and missile strikes across the entire territory of Ukraine," the update reads. It is noted that throughout the day, the invaders launched two missile and seven air strikes, as well as fired 35 times from MLR systems. More than 20 settlements were hit, including Dnipro, Zaporizhia, Bakhmut, Spirne, Maryinka, Soledar, Belogorivka, Blahodativka, and Zaliznychne. According to the General Staff, the situation in the Volyn and Polissia directions has seen no significant changes. At the same time, the invaders fired their tanks and artillery systems of various types in the following areas: in the Siversky direction – in the area of ​​Velika Pysarivka, Sumy region; in the Kramatorsk direction – in  the areas of Bilohorivka, Druzhelyubivka, Dvorichna, Rozdolivka and Yampil settlements; in the Bakhmut direction - near Soledar, Bakhmutske, Bakhmut, Mayorsk, and Vesele; in the Avdiivka direction - near Pervomaiske, Avdiivka, Krasnohorivka, Maryinka, and Vodiane. In the Novopavlivka and Zaporizhia areas, more than 30 settlements along the contact line were shelled, including Vuhledar, Mykilske, Vremivka, Hulyaipole, Hulyaipilske, and Zaliznychne. The enemy employed tanks, mortars, and barrel artillery. As noted, more than 25 settlements along the contact line were shelled in the South Buh direction. "According to the updated information, in the area of ​​Kyrylivka, Donetsk region, up to 20 units of enemy military equipment were destroyed, while up to eight combat helicopters were seriously damaged," the General Staff reported. The Russian military and political leadership, in order to win more time for the preparation and combat coordination of mobilized personnel, made an "interesting decision": units deployed on the front lines are being replenished at the expense of operatives of “security forces” working in the temporarily occupied territory of Donetsk region. At the same time, administrative and policing work in the temporarily occupied areas will be entrusted to the Russian FSB units. Also in the update, the General Staff says the Ukrainian Air Force carried out 19 air strikes. It was confirmed that two enemy strongholds, 14 equipment clusters, as as well as three anti-aircraft missile systems were hit. In addition, air defense units shot down a Ka-52 helicopter and a Su-25 attack aircraft. "Missile and artillery forces hit four command and control points, 17 manpower and weapon clusters, two ammunition and materiel depots, two air defense systems, as well as 10 other important targets," the report reads. As of October 3, Russia’s military death toll in Ukraine has amounted to nearly 60,430. 