The missile and artillery units of the Armed Forces of Ukraine inflicted fire damage on 16 enemy objects, including six areas of concentration of personnel, weapons and military equipment.

This is   in the latest report of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine published on Facebook, Ukrinform reports. "The enemy continues to focus its efforts on attempts to fully occupy Donetsk region, organize defense and keep control of the captured territories, as well as disrupt the active operations of the Defense Forces in certain directions,” the report reads. In particular, the Russian forces open fire at Ukrainian positions along the contact line, take measures to regroup their units in separate directions, deploy reserves and continue to conduct aerial reconnaissance. Over the past day, the Russian military launched 10 missile strikes and 15 airstrikes, more than 56 MLRS attacks on facilities in the territory of Ukraine, violating the norms of International Humanitarian Law, the laws and customs of war. According to the General Staff, the infrastructure of more than 33 settlements was affected, including Slavhorod, Kramatorsk, Bakhmut, Mayorsk, Vodiane, Dorozhne, Soledar, Novopil, Zaporizhzhia, Mykolaiv, Oleksandrivka, Snihurivka, Nova Odesa, Shyroke, Bilohirsk, Myroliubivka and Bila Krynytsia. There is still a threat of airstrikes and missile strikes throughout the territory of Ukraine. In the Volyn and Polissia directions, the situation has not undergone significant change. In other directions, the enemy used tanks, mortars and artillery of various types to attack the Ukrainian positions. In the Siverskyi direction, the areas of Mykolaivka, Chernihiv region, and Novodanylivka, Slavhorod, and Riasne, Sumy region, came under enemy fire. In the Slobozhanshchyna direction, the enemy struck the areas of Kozacha Lopan, Shevchenkove, Derhachi, Kamianka, Strelecha, Hlyboke and Dvorichna. In the Kramatorsk direction, the Russian forces shelled the areas of Oleksandrivka, Donetske, Raihorodok, Shchurove, Kryva Luka, Ozerne, Bilohorivka, Pryshyb, Hryhorivka and Siversk. In the Bakhmut direction, the enemy struck the areas of Mayorsk, Mykolaivka, Verkhniokamianske, Soledar, Bakhmutske, Bakhmut, Vesela Dolyna, Odradivka, Vesele, Vyimka, Mykolaivka Druha, New York, Bilohorivka, Yuryivka, Spirne, Zaitseve and Yakovlivka. In the Avdiivka direction, the areas of Krasnohorivka, Maryinka, Novomykhailivka and Pervomaiske came under enemy fire. In the Novopavlivske and Zaporizhzhia directions, the enemy did not take active operations. The settlements of Vuhledar, Velyka Novosilka, Mykilske, Mali Shcherbaky, Novomayorske, Mala Tokmachka, Chervone, Pavlivka, Huliaipole, Novopil and Vremivka came under enemy artillery shelling. In the Southern Buh direction, the enemy shelled more than 28 settlements, including Oleksandrivka, Novohryhorivka, Zoria, Shevchenkove, Myrne, Shyroke, Bilohirka, Bezimenne, Myroliubivka, Vysokopillia and Olhyne. Over the past day, units of the Ukrainian defense forces repelled enemy attacks in the areas of Mayorsk, Vesele, Kurdiumivka and Novomykhailivka settlements. In addition, over the past 24 hours, the Ukrainian Air Force struck 24 areas of concentration of enemy manpower and military equipment, 4 positions of air defense systems and an ammunition depot. In addition, the Ukrainian Air Force destroyed Russia’s Su-25 attack aircraft, Kh-59 air-to-surface guided missile and five drones. The missile and artillery units of the Armed Forces of Ukraine struck 16 enemy targets, including 6 areas of concentration of personnel, weapons and military equipment, 7 areas of concentration of artillery, as well as 3 ammunition depots. Data on enemy losses is being clarified, the General Staff added. iy 