Last night Russian invaders twice attacked the city of Mykolaiv, with suicide drones and S-300 missiles. Five civilians were reported injured, including a 3-month-old baby.

The relevant statement was made by Mykolaiv Regional Military Administration Head Vitalii Kim on  , an Ukrinform correspondent reports. According to Kim, after 00:00 (midnight), the enemy struck Mykolaiv with the Shahed-136 suicide drones. The details are yet to be checked. Around 04:03 a.m., Russian troops launched a massive attack on the city with S-300 missiles. Lots of destructions in residential houses were reported. In particular, one of Russian missiles struck a 5-storey apartment block, having fully destroyed apartments on floor 5 and floor 4. The cars parked in the yard and the neighboring houses were damaged. In the other district of the city, detached houses and a 2-storey residential house were hit. A warehouse and buildings located within a motor transport enterprise were damaged. “According to the preliminary data, five civilians were injured, including a 3-month-old baby,” Kim noted. In addition, the Mykolaiv region’s Mykolaiv district and Bashtanka district came under enemy fire. The enemy launched missile and artillery strikes on the Mykolaiv district’s urban-type settlement of Pervomaiske. Detached houses and household plots were damaged. Such villages as Zasillia and Kyselivka were shelled with Russian MLRS and artillery. Russian invaders launched an artillery strike on the Shevchenkove community’s Kotliareve, having hit detached houses and a garage. No casualties among civilians were reported. The Bashtanka district’s Bereznehuvate community is remaining under enemy fire. The adjacent areas of such settlements as Lepetykha and Kavkaz were shelled on September 30, 2022. Explosions were heard near the village of Mala Mykhailivka. Russian invaders opened fire on the outskirts of Vysun and Bereznehuvate Station. No casualties or destructions were reported. In the Voznesensk district and the Pervomaisk district, it was relatively calm. mk 