Ukraine’s Armed Forces repelled enemy attacks in the areas of Spirne, Soledar, Bakhmutske, Odradivka, Kurdyumivka, Zaitseve, Mayorsk, Kamianka, Avdiivka, and Opytne over the past day.

This was stated in a war update by the  , seen by Ukrinform. The enemy continues to focus its efforts on attempts to fully occupy Donetsk region and hold the captured areas, as well as disrupt the actions of Ukraine’s Defense Forces in certain directions, firing at their positions along the entire contact line, trying to regain lost ground, and conducting aerial reconnaissance. The enemy does not stop striking the civilian infrastructure and residential areas. The threat of air and missile strikes remains in place throughout the territory of Ukraine. Over the past day, Russian invaders launched five missile strikes, 14 airstrikes, and over 60 MLRS strikes at military and civilian targets, violating the norms of international humanitarian law, the laws and customs of warfare. More than 60 settlements came under enemy fire, including Pechenihy, Yatskivka, Yarova, Maryinka, Krasnohorivka, Bilogirka, Myrolyubivka, Mykolaiv, Sukhyi Stavok, Nova Hryhorivka, Pivdenne, Mali Shcherbaki, Hryhorivka, Severnye, Shcherbaki, Ochakiv, Solone, Orihiv, and Arkhangelske. As a result of an enemy attack on Odesa with the use of attack UAVs, two people were killed and two more were injured. At night, the city of Mykolaiv was also fired upon. Information on civilian casualties is being verified. In the Volyn and Polissia directions, the situation has not changed significantly. In other directions, enemy tanks, mortars, and artillery were active: More than 35 settlements were shelled in the South Buh direction. Among them are Visokopillya, Myrolyubivka, Ukrainka, Lozove, Blagodativka, Shiroke, Suhy Stavok, Bezymenne, Ternovi Pody, Olgyne, Lymany, and Myrne. In the temporarily captured and occupied territory of Ukraine, the occupying authorities are holding sham referenda on accession to Russia. In connection with the low turnout, employees of the "election commissions", accompanied by armed servicemen of the armed servicemen, collect the votes of local residents directly at their homes. In Zaporizhia and Kherson regions, the occupation authorities began serving mobilization papers to men of conscription age who renounced Ukrainian citizenship and obtained Russian passports. Servicemen of the Russian occupation forces continue to commit illegal actions against the civilian population and engage in looting. According to available reports, in Melitopol, Chechen soldiers seized an agriculture machinery dealer's warehouse, trying to sell its property. At the same time, Ukraine’s Air Force launched 25 strikes on enemy targets, engaging 18 manpower and military equipment clusters and seven firing positions of anti-aircraft missile systems. Air defense units destroyed a helicopter, a warplane, and eight UAVs. Missile troops and artillery hit six control points, more than 20 manpower and equipment clusters, three firing positions of air defense units, and four ammunition depots. 