Putin's latest "initiatives" result in even greater support for Ukraine on the part of Europe, including through the supply of military equipment.

This was stated by Germany’s Defense Minister Christine Lambrecht, who spoke at a joint press conference in Berlin with her French counterpart Sebastien Lecornu, an Ukrinform correspondent reports. "Our response is really consistent and, most importantly, resolute and joint: there will be no deviations, we will continue to support Ukraine in its courageous struggle in the future," the German minister said. She noted that thanks to the "ring swap" with a number of countries, Ukraine can quickly receive tanks that can be immediately employed on the battlefield. The politician also recalled of the increase in supplies by Germany of Panzerhaubitze 2000 self-propelled guns and anti-aircraft missiles, and mentioned the upcoming deliveries of air defense systems. It’s air defense and artillery, which Ukraine needs most, she noted. Lambrecht noted the "huge successes" of the Armed Forces in recent days and weeks, including thanks to the assistance from Germany and France, and how "desperate" Moscow's response was, when partial mobilization was declared and sham "referenda" were announced. "For us, these referenda will be of no significance as this is the territory of Ukraine and will remain so," the head of the Bundeswehr said. The minister emphasized that the goal of the allies is to help Ukraine, including with military equipment, in the long term as well. "It's good that we are sending a clear signal: this Putin reaction to Ukraine's successes only encourages us to continue supporting Ukraine," the head of the German Ministry of Defense emphasized. "Well-trained and well-armed Armed Forces are the best guarantee of security for Ukraine, but also for us," Lambrecht said, mentioning in this context the projects for the training of Ukrainian soldiers, in which both countries are involved. The heads of the defense ministries also discussed bilateral cooperation projects, in particular, regarding the German-French brigade, as well as missions in Africa. 