In order to try to launch another attack on Kyiv, Russia needs to build up the relevant capabilities. This would take two to three months.

Commander of the Joint Forces, Lieutenant General Serhiy Naiev, announced this on the air of a nationwide telethon, answering the question of whether a new attack on Kyiv is possible, Ukrinform reports. "It is possible, indeed. To this end, it is necessary for them to build up the relevant forces. This will take some time. In order to create the appropriate capacity, the one we would feel, about two to three months are needed," said Naiev. At the same time, the commander assured that the capital is currently protected much better than it was at the onset of the full-scale invasion. Also, the claim that the Russian army is world’s second-strongest is a myth, Naieve emphasized. "Their idea of them being second-strongest in terms of might was designed for the information space. It's just a myth that was debunked by our citizens, our Army, our leaders, our president," said Naiev. As Ukrinform reported earlier, on February 24, Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered his troops to cross into Ukraine on multiple fronts. Russian forces have been shelling key infrastructure facilities, carrying out massive strikes on residential areas of Ukrainian cities and towns, employing artillery, MLR systems, warplanes, ballistic missile launchers, and most recently kamikaze drones. Martial law has been introduced in Ukraine and general mobilization has been declared as the country is repelling the Russian onslaught. Also, Ukraine officially filed a lawsuit against the Russian Federation with the UN International Court of Justice in The Hague. On September 21, Russian President Vladimir Putin announced mobilization, after which activists and opposition figures in Russia called for the citizens to take to the streets in protest. Russian Defense Minister Serhii Shoigu announced that 300,000 reservists would be called up as part of the partial mobilization move. On September 30, Russian President Vladimir Putin signed documents on the "accession" into the Russian Federation of the puppet entities "DPR" and "LPR", as well as the territories of Kherson and Zaporizhia regions of Ukraine captured by the Russian army. 