The enemy continues to focus its efforts on attempts to fully occupy the Donetsk region, organize defense and keep control of the temporarily captured territories, as well as to disrupt active operations of the Ukrainian defense forces in certain areas. However, the Armed Forces of Ukraine repel the enemy's attacks and inflict significant losses on the invasion troops.

This is said in a   made by the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine on Facebook, Ukrinform reports. "The enemy continues to focus efforts on attempts to fully occupy Donetsk region, organize defense and maintain temporarily captured territories, as well as disrupt the active operations of the Defense Forces in certain directions. It fires at our positions along the contact line, conducts measures to regroup troops in certain directions, reinforces reserves and conducts aerial reconnaissance. There is still a threat of air and missile strikes throughout the territory of Ukraine," the statement reads. At the same time, it is specified that the invaders continue to strike the homes of civilians and facilities of civilian infrastructure, violating the laws and customs of warfare and the norms of International Humanitarian Law. Over the past day, the enemy launched 4 missile strikes, 24 air strikes and 72 attacks with the use of MLRS. The infrastructure of more than 58 settlements was damaged by enemy air strikes, missile attacks and the use of MLRS systems. In particular, these are Kharkiv, Zolochiv, Druzhkivka, Siversk, Zakitne, New York, Veselianka, Maryinka, Krasnohorivka, Poltavka, Mali Shcherbaky, Myrne, Velyke Artakove, Kryvyi Rih, Nikopol, Olhivske, Zaporizhzhia, Orikhiv, Myroliubivka, Ochakiv and Sukhyi Stavok. The situation has not changed significantly in the Volyn, Polissia and Siverskyi directions. In other directions, the enemy used tanks, mortars and artillery, namely: - in the Kharkiv direction, in particular, enemy shelling from Russian territory was recorded near Kadiivka, Hoptivka, Strelecha, Vilkhuvatka, Anyskyne, Siniok, Kamianka, Prystin and Dvorichna; - in the Sloviansk direction – near ​​Horokhovatka and Bakhtyn; - in the Kramatorsk direction - Kryva Luka, Pyskunivka, Raihorodok, Staryi Karavan, Mykolaivka, Dronivka, Rozdilne, Siversk, Verkhniokamianske, Sviatohirsk, Sosnove, Oleksandrivka and Yaremivka; - in the Bakhmut direction  - Bilohorivka, Rozdolivka, Vyimka, Odradivka, Soledar, Mykolaivka Druha, Bakhmut, Bakhmutske, Yakovlivka, Vesela Dolyna, Vesele and Mayorsk. - in the Avdiivka, Novopavlivka, and Zaporizhzhia directions, the enemy did not conduct active operations. Avdiivka, Vesele, Opytne, Netaylove, Zelene Pole, Poltavka and Novopil came under enemy artillery fire. - in the Southern Buh direction, the occupiers shelled the contact line. More than 26 settlements came under enemy fire. As Ukrinform reported, about 8,500 square kilometers, 388 settlements have been liberated from Russian invaders in the Kharkiv region since September 6, 2022. iy 