The Russian forces are trying to hold the temporarily captured territories, focusing their efforts on attempts to disrupt the actions of the Ukrainian defense forces in certain directions, and are conducting offensive operations in the Bakhmut and Avdiivka directions.

The General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine said this in its latest operational   posted on Facebook, Ukrinform reports. According to the General Staff, the enemy is shelling the positions of Ukrainian troops along the contact line, fortifying defensive positions in certain directions and conducting aerial reconnaissance. The enemy continues to violate the norms of International Humanitarian Law, the laws and customs of war, attacking the civilians infrastructure and civilian residential areas. There is still a threat of airstrikes and missile strikes throughout the territory of Ukraine. Over the past day, the invaders launched 7 missile attacks and 12 airstrikes, more than 80 MLRS attacks. As a result of enemy shelling, the infrastructure of more than 20 settlements was damaged, including Slavhorod, Bilovody, Vuhledar, Ridkodub, Huliaipilske, Novoandriivka, Zaporizhzhia and Mykolaiv. In the Volyn and Polissia directions, the situation has not changed significantly. In other directions, the enemy used tanks, mortars and artillery of various types to shell settlements. In the Siverskyi direction, the invaders struck areas of Bleshnia, Hai and Senkivka of Chernihiv region and Starykove of Sumy region. In the Slobozhanske direction, the occupiers shelled 18 settlements, including Hlyboke, Uda, Ohirtseve, Strelecha, Kolodiazne, Dvorichne, Neskuchne. In the Kramatorsk direction, Spirne, Bilohorivka, Verkhniokamianske, Rozdolivka, Serebrianka, Hryhorivka, Dronivka, Vesele came under enemy shelling. In the Bakhmut direction, the enemy shelled the areas of Yakovlivka, Soledar, Bakhmut, Bakhmutske, Ivanhrad, Opytne, Mayorsk, New York, Vyimka, Rozdolivka, Vesele and Odradivka settlements. In the Avdiivka direction, Avdiivka, Krasnohorivka, Pervomaiske and Novomykhailivka came under enemy fire. In the Novopavlivske and Zaporizhzhia directions, enemy did not carry out offensive operations. Enemy shelling damaged infrastructure in the areas of 16 settlements, including Vremivka, Temyrivka, Olhivske, Huliaipilske and Zaliznychne. In the Southern Bug direction, areas of more than 27 settlements near the contact line came under enemy shelling. Units of the Ukrainian defense forces repelled enemy attacks in the areas of Vyimka, Bakhmutske, Krasna Hora, Bakhmut, Mayorsk, Ozerianivka, Zaitseve, Odradivka, Andriivka, Pervomaiske, Krasnohorivka, Vesele, Kamianka, Pobieda, Nevelske, Novomykhailivka, and Ternovi Pody. iy 