In Istanbul, a solemn ceremony of launching the Ada-class corvette built in Turkey for Ukraine’s Navy took place with the participation of First Lady of Ukraine Olena Zelenska and Commander of the Navy of the Armed Forces of Ukraine Oleksiy Neyizhpapa.

"I brought you greetings from Ukraine. The country where every adult and every child knows the Turkish word ‘Bayraktar’ and has been pronouncing it with gratitude during the months of Russian aggression. This is not an exaggeration. We feel you next to us, we feel your help. We know that we have common values ​​– we are now defending from the invader what is most important for every person – our home, family, right to language and country. We value friendship. Your friendship," Olena Zelenska said, an Ukrinform correspondent reports. It is believed that ships should be addressed like people – with respect and honor, the First Lady of Ukraine noted "Hetman Ivan Mazepa corvette, today I am launching you. I wish you luck and success for my country and my people. Fly the Ukrainian flag with honor. Fair winds, calm seas and only victories! Always remember your Turkish homeland and bring glory to Ukraine!" Olena Zelenska said. The Commander of the Navy of the Armed Forces of Ukraine expressed confidence that both the Ukrainian Navy and Turkish shipbuilders would be proud of the new corvette. "Today's extremely important event for Ukraine and its Naval Forces proves once again that we have a wonderful friend – the Republic of Turkey – in the conditions of a decisive war for our independence and territorial integrity, for the will of the multinational Ukrainian people, for freedom and dignity.... I am proud of the high motivation of the Ukrainian officers and sailors who will serve on this ship. You will receive a modern and powerful corvette," said Commander of the Navy of the Armed Forces of Ukraine Oleksiy Neyizhpapa. The ceremony was attended by the Commander of the Navy of the Armed Forces of Turkey, as well as the corvette team led by the captain. Neyizhpapa thanked the President of Ukraine, the Parliament, the Government, the Ministry of Defense, and the Turkish Navy for their help in building up the combat capabilities of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. As reported, the construction of the Ada-class corvette for the Navy of the Armed Forces of Ukraine began in April 2021. The corvette was built in accordance with the Strategy for the Development of the Navy of the Armed Forces of Ukraine until 2036. ol 