Over the past day, the Russian troops struck eight regions of Ukraine. The invaders continue to hold pseudo-referenda in the occupied territories. Due to the low turnout in Kherson region, the members of the "election commissions" collect signatures from local residents, visiting their homes together with armed military.

This is stated in the consolidated report of the regional military administrations as of the morning of September 25. In Odesa region, Russian troops attacked Odesa city with kamikaze drones this morning. The enemy hit an administrative building in the city center three times. One drone was shot down by the Ukrainian air defense forces. There are no casualties. In Zaporizhzhia region, Russian rocket hit several districts of Zaporizhzhia city and a nearby village at midnight. Some of the rockets were shot down by the air defense forces. At least three people were injured. In Dnipropetrovsk region, Russian troops struck Nikopol district five times during the night, using heavy artillery and Grad rocket launchers. Nikopol, Marhanets, and Chervonohryhorivka communities came under enemy fire; more than 170 explosions were recorded. According to preliminary data, no one was injured. In Kharkiv region, Russian troops shelled Kupyansk, Chuhuiv, and Krasnohrad districts over the past day. In Luhansk region, Ukrainian aviation launched 26 strikes on Russian troops, damaging 20 areas of enemy's manpower and military equipment build-up and six positions of anti-aircraft missile systems. In Donetsk region, invaders shelled the village of Dyliyivka at night. In the morning, the enemy launched two massive attacks on Avdiivka and struck Krasnohorivka late in the evening. The entire Donetsk region has no gas supply and has only partial water and electricity supplies. Over the past day, two civilians were killed, eight civilians were injured in the region. Mandatory evacuation of the civilians continues. In Mykolaiv region, the Russians once again hit Mykolaiv city with rockets at night. Residential buildings were damaged, the water supply network was hit. According to preliminary data, there are no casualties. The enemy also launched rocket attacks on the coastal zone of the town of Ochakiv. No casualties were reported. In Kherson region, the enemy struck Vysokopillia, Myroliubivka, Arkhanhelske, Olhyne, Bilousove, Karyerne, and Potiomkyne. Civilian infrastructure was destroyed, civilians were injured. The night was relatively calm in Volyn, Zakarpattia, Rivne, Ivano-Frankivsk, Lviv, Chernivtsi, Vinnytsia, Khmelnytskyi, Ternopil, Cherkasy, Poltava, Kirovohrad, Kyiv, and Zhytomyr regions. ol 