Over the past day, Ukraine’s Defense Forces have repelled enemy attacks near eight settlements. The Air Force of the Armed Forces of Ukraine struck 13 personnel and military equipment clusters.

The relevant statement was made by the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine on  , an Ukrinform correspondent reports. Russian troops continue to focus their efforts on holding the captured territories, attempts to fully occupy the Donetsk region, as well as disrupting the active actions of Ukraine’s Defense Forces in certain areas. The enemy is trying to restore lost positions in certain directions, conducts air reconnaissance and attacks civilian infrastructure, violating the standards of international humanitarian law, and the laws and customs of war. The threat of air and missile strikes is persisting all over Ukraine. Over the past day, Russian troops have launched two missile strikes and four air strikes, opened fire with multiple launch rocket systems over seven times. Near the Odesa region’s ​​Bilenke, the enemy used unmanned combat aerial vehicles (UCAVs). Russian occupiers inflicted fire damage on 12 settlements, namely Zaporizhzhia, Marhanets, Musiivka, Nikopol, Potiomkyne, Osokorivka, Mykolaiv and Ochakiv. In the Volyn, Polissia and Siverskyi directions, the situation remained rather unchanged. In other directions, the enemy used tanks, mortars and cannon artillery to open fire as follows: in the Slobozhanskyi direction – near such settlements as Odnorobivka, Veterynarne, Strelecha, Hlyboke, Hatyshche, Kucherivka, Petropavlivka, Kupiansk-Vuzlovyi, Senkove, Kamianka and Holubivka; in the Kramatorsk direction – Novoselivka, Shchurove, Dibrova, Ozerne, Zakytne, Siversk, Verkhniokamianske, Vyimka, Spirne, Rozdolivka, Vesele and Bilohorivka; in the Bakhmut direction – Yakovlivka, Soledar, Bakhmutske, Hryhorivka, Bakhmut, Vesela Dolyna, Klishchivka, Odradivka, Zaitseve and Maiorsk; in the Avdiivka direction – Pervomaiske, Avdiivka, Vodiane, Opytne, Marinka, Paraskoviivka and Novomykhailivka; in the Novopavlivka direction – Vremivka, Vuhledar, Pavlivka, Mykilske and Yehorivka. in the Zaporizhzhia direction – Zelene Pole, Novosilka, Uspenivka, Novopil, Olhivske, Huliaipole, Zaliznychne, Chervone, Huliaipilske and Novoandriivka. In the Southern Bug direction, over 35 settlements, situated close to the contact line, came under enemy fire. Within the temporarily occupied areas of Ukraine, Russian occupiers continue to hold pseudo-referenda. The enemy is increasing filtering and counter-sabotage measures. Considerable attention is paid to checking the personal mobile phones of local residents for cooperation with Ukrainian defenders. During the day, the Ukrainian military repelled enemy attacks near such settlements as Spirne, Soledar, Pidhorodne, Bakhmut, Maiorsk, Kamianka, Pobieda and Pavlivka. Ukrainian air forces struck enemy positions about 20 times. Thirteen enemy personnel and military equipment clusters were confirmed to have been hit, as well as armored vehicle positions and five air defense system positions. The enemy’s losses are yet to be checked. In addition, Ukraine’s missile and artillery units struck three enemy command posts, five personnel and military equipment clusters, one air defense system position, two missile and artillery units, three ammunition depots and 12 “separate important targets”. A reminder that, between February 24, 2022 and September 26, 2022, Russia’s total combat losses in Ukraine reached about 57,200 troops. mk 