The Armed Forces of Ukraine repelled attacks by Russian troops near the settlements of Bilohorivka, Bakhmutske, Bakhmut, Mayorsk, Krasnohorivka and Terny.

The General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine said this in its latest operational   posted on Facebook, Ukrinform reports. According to the General Staff, the enemy is trying to hold the temporarily captured territories, focusing its efforts on attempts to disrupt the actions of the Ukrainian defense forces in certain directions, and is conducting offensive operations in the Bakhmut and Avdiivka directions. The Russian forces are shelling the positions of Ukrainian troops along the contact line, fortifying defensive positions in certain directions and conducting aerial reconnaissance. The enemy continues to violate the norms of International Humanitarian Law, the laws and customs of war, attacking the civilian infrastructure and civilian residential areas. It is noted that there is still a threat of airstrikes and missile strikes throughout the territory of Ukraine. During the current day, the invaders launched 3 missile attacks and 16 airstrikes, more than 20 MLRS attacks. More than 15 settlements came under enemy fire, including Bilovody, Hrabovske, Slavhorod, Udy, Chuhunivka, Kharkiv, Chasiv Yar, Bilohorivka, Krasnohorivka, Maryinka and Novomykhailivka. In the Volyn and Polissia directions, the situation has not changed significantly. In other directions, the enemy used tanks, mortars and artillery of various types to shell settlements: in the Siverskyi direction, the invaders shelled areas near Senkivka, Bleshnia and Mykolaivka of Chernihiv region, as well as Bachivsk, Starykove, Kindrativka and Bilovody of Sumy region: in the Slobozhanske direction – Udy, Kozacha Lopan, Krasne, Hlyboke, Ohirtseve, Varvarivka, Neskuchne, Ternova and Dvorichna; in the Kramatorsk direction - Terny, Novoyehorivka, Makiivka, Yampolivka, Dronivka, Serebrianka, Bilohorivka, Vesele and Hryhorivka; in the Bakhmut direction – Verkhnokamianske, Rozdolivka, Yakovlivka, Soledar, Bakhmutske, Bakhmut, Opytne, Mayorsk and New York; in the Avdiivka direction – Pervomaiske, Nevelske, Krasnohorivka, Maryinka and Novomykhailivka. In the Novopavlivske and Zaporizhzhia directions, enemy did not carry out offensive operations. Enemy shelling damaged infrastructure of more than 20 settlements, including Zelene Pole, Vremivka, Neskuchne, Vuhledar, Temyrivka, Olhivske, Charivne, Huliaipilske and Zaliznychne. In the Southern Bug direction, areas of more than 40 settlements near the contact line came under enemy shelling. In particular, the enemy once again used Iranian kamikaze drones to attack the infrastructure of Nikopol and the territories of Mykolaiv region. During the current day, units of the Ukrainian defense forces repelled enemy attacks near the settlements of Bilohorivka, Bakhmutske, Bakhmut, Mayorsk, Krasnohorivka and Terny. As reported by Ukrinform, the Armed Forces of Ukraine eliminated about 62,600 Russian invaders from February 24 to October 8. iy 