The Ukrainian aviation launched nine strikes on the enemy, while missile and artillery units hit six enemy command posts, 13 areas of the build-up of manpower, weapons, and military equipment, two ammunition depots.

This is stated in the report of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine as of 18:00, September 30, published on  . "Aviation of the Defense Forces launched nine strikes. One enemy stronghold, three areas of the build-up of weapons and military equipment, five anti-aircraft missile systems were hit. In addition, Ukrainian air defense units shot down one UAV. Missile and artillery troops struck six command posts, 13 areas of the build-up of manpower, weapons, and military equipment, two ammunition depots, one anti-aircraft missile system, and four systems of enemy missile and artillery troops," the report reads. As noted, the enemy continues to focus its efforts on attempts to fully occupy Donetsk region and hold the temporarily captured territories, as well as disrupt the active actions of Ukraine’s Defense Forces in certain directions. The enemy shells the Ukrainian positions along the contact line, conducts aerial reconnaissance, attacks civilian infrastructure and civilian homes, violating international humanitarian law, laws and customs of war. The enemy launched three missile strikes and five airstrikes, more than 15 MLRS attacks on military and civilian objects in the territory of Ukraine. More than 25 settlements, including Kostiantynivka, Zaporizhzhia, Mykolaiv, Huliaypole, Ridkodub, Bilohorivka, Novoandriivka, Blahodativka, and Myroliubivka, came under enemy fire. The situation in Volyn and Polissia directions has not changed significantly. In other directions, the enemy continues shelling populated localities with tanks and artillery of various types: In Slobozhansk direction: in the areas of the settlements of Udy, Strilecha, Zelene, Neskuchne, Prystin, and Kupyansk; In Kramatorsk direction: in the areas of Bilohorivka, Verkhniokamyanske, Blakytni Ozera; In Bakhmut direction: – Soledar, Spirne, Bakhmutske, Bakhmut, Zaitseve, and New York; In Avdiivka direction: Avdiivka, Krasnohorivka, Vodiane, Karlivka, Pervomaiske, Tonenke, Marinka, Novomykhailivka; In Novopavlivka direction: the areas of Novoukrayinka, Vuhledar, Prechystivka, Pavlivka, Vremivka, Neskuchne, and Shevchenko. The enemy did not conduct active offensive actions in Zaporizhzhia direction. The areas of Zaliznychne, Dorozhnianka, Novopil, Temyrivka, Bilohirya, Guliaypole, Mala Tokmachka, and Kamyanske came under fire. In Southern Buh direction, more than 30 settlements along the contact line, including Novohryhorivka, Partyzanske, Kyselivka, Blahodativka, Kalynivka, Vysokopillia, Arkhanhelske, Osokorivka, and Bila Krynytsia, were struck with tanks, mortars and tube artillery. The Russian command is trying to carry out forced mobilization in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine. Over the past day, the Ukrainian troops repelled enemy attacks in the areas of Mayorsk, Zaytseve, Odradivka, and Bakhmutske settlements. ol 