Ukrainian missile and artillery units hit five enemy command posts, up to 15 areas of enemy manpower and equipment build-up, two air defense positions, and three ammunition depots.

This is stated in the report of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine as of 18:00, September 27, published on  . As noted, the Russian troops continue to focus their efforts on holding territories, trying to completely capture Donetsk region, as well as disrupting the actions of the Defense Forces in certain directions. The aggressor fires at the positions of the Armed Forces of Ukraine along the contact line, conducts aerial reconnaissance, and tries to restore lost positions in some areas. The enemy continues to destroy civilian infrastructure and residential buildings. There is still a threat of airstrikes and missile strikes on the entire territory of Ukraine. During the day, the enemy launched two missile strikes and six airstrikes, more than 20 MLRS attacks on military and civilian objects, violating the norms of international humanitarian law, laws and customs of war. More than 15 settlements, including Zaporizhzhia, Mykolaiv, Ochakiv, Avdiivka, Krasnohorivka, Poltavka, and Marinka, were damaged by enemy fire. In Volyn and Polissia directions, the situation has not changed significantly. In other directions, the enemy opened fire from tanks, mortars, and tube artillery. In Siversky direction: in the areas of the settlements of Huta-Studenetska, Mykhaylove, Sosnivka, and Starosillia of Chernihiv region, Prokhody and Nova Huta of Sumy region. In Slobozhansky direction: in the areas of Veterynarne, Udy, Vovchansk, Hoptivka, and Strilecha settlements. In Kramatorsk direction: Holubi Ozera, Siversk, Verkhniokamyanske, Dvorichne, Dronivka, Zakitne, and Minkivka. In Bakhmut direction: Bakhmut, Bakhmutske, Vesela Dolyna, Soledar, Yakovlivka, New York, and Rozdolivka. In Avdiivka direction: Avdiivka, Berdychi, Opytne, Vodiane, Krasnohorivka, Marinka, and Novomykhailivka. In Novopavlivka direction: Yehorivka, Vuhledar, Prechystivka, Bohoyavlenka, and Pavlivka. More than 20 settlements, including Novosilka, Stepnohirsk, Shevchenko, Novopil, Vremivka, Poltavka, and Uspenivka, came under fire in Zaporizhzhia direction. In Southern Buh direction, more than 35 settlements along the contact line were hit with tanks, mortars, and tube artillery. To conduct reconnaissance, adjust fire, and attack civilian infrastructure objects, the enemy made more than 50 sorties of UAVs, in particular, Iranian-made Shahed-136. To replenish units, the military-political leadership of the Russian Federation tries to organize the forced mobilization of Ukrainian citizens in the temporarily occupied territories. During the day, the Ukrainian troops repelled enemy attacks near Soledar, Mayorsk, Kurdiumivka, Zaitseve, Bakhmut, Bakhmutske, Vyimka, Spirne, Pervomaiske, and Kamyanka. To support the actions of the ground groups, the Air Force of the Defense Forces of Ukraine launched 10 strikes. It was confirmed that seven areas of enemy manpower and military equipment build-up and three positions of anti-aircraft missile systems were damaged. In addition, the air defense units destroyed a Su-25 aircraft and five UAVs of various types. The missile and artillery units hit five enemy command posts, up to 15 areas of enemy manpower and equipment build-up, two air defense positions, and three ammunition depots. ol 