Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has called on the leaders of the EU countries to be especially careful about the protection of critical infrastructure and increase the production and supply of weapons and ammunition to Ukraine.

He said this in his  at a meeting of the European Council, Ukrinform reports, citing the press service of the head of state. "Russia brought war to our land – to the Ukrainian part of Europe. And only thanks to the fact that the Ukrainian people stopped this invasion of Russia, Russia cannot yet bring the same war to other parts of Europe, in particular, the Baltic countries, Poland, and Moldova," he said. He also said that the whole of Europe is facing a severe price crisis, when through the manipulation of the energy market Russia achieves unprecedented pressure on the standard of living of the absolute majority of Europeans. In this regard, the head of state emphasized the importance of increasing cooperation in the security and defense spheres. "Increase the supply of weapons and ammunition to defend against the Russian pressure. Increase the manufacture of weapons and ammunition in Europe to be always ready to defend our common space. Indeed, I understand, and all of us would rather spend the money we spend on armaments on completely different goals – peaceful goals, social needs. But who and what will be able to protect such goals and such needs?" Zelensky said. He also added that now it is necessary to be especially careful about the protection of Ukrainian critical infrastructure – and especially after the sabotage that happened at gas pipelines in the Baltic Sea. "Never before has our continent faced such a threat – the threat of destroying underwater pipelines, cables, and tunnels. But now you can expect this from Russia," Zelensky said. At the same time, he stressed the need "to strengthen our cooperation to help each other provide all Europeans with adequate energy guarantees." "The key challenge is in Ukraine. The first is the physical protection of energy facilities from Russian strikes. We need enough air defense systems to prevent Russia from leaving people without heat and electricity in the winter," Zelensky said. He also mentioned the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant and stressed the need to immediately fulfill the requirements of the IAEA and demilitarize it from Russian troops. 