In the current conditions of war, the agenda is formed only by the Armed Forces of Ukraine, so it makes no difference what decrees Vladimir Putin signs and what Russian propaganda says.

That’s according to Mykhailo Podolyak, an adviser to the head of the President’s Office, who spoke at the national telethon, Ukrinform reports. "All collisions regarding the referenda, Mr Putin’s decrees, which are null and void from a legal standpoint, none of them made any sense – it was an attempt to overplay in the media space what can’t be achieved on a military bridgehead. So – I’d like to reiterate this – today it’s only Ukraine that shapes the agenda, only the Armed Forces of Ukraine shape the agenda that we will follow, liberating our territories. It doesn't matter what Russian propaganda says, it doesn't matter what decrees Putin signs, including on the transfer of the Zaporizhia NPP to Rosatom’s jurisdiction, it doesn't matter what they say about the Kerch Bridge. Legally, it all makes no sense," Podolyak said. He added that what makes sense now is gradual destruction of the Russian security infrastructure: "We are partially doing some work, we are destroying depots of the first and second grade or fuel bases. On the other hand, due to the chaos in relations within Putin's immediate entourage, Russia is now beginning to engulf and destroy itself... The eventuality on the Kerch Bridge is an opportunity for one or another power group in Putin’s circle to gain new frontiers." In addition, the adviser emphasized that the blowing up of the Kerch bridge significantly complicates arms supplies to the invasion forces, as well as inflicts a major psychological impact on those recently called up for military service in Russia, further worsening the morale among the occupation forces. Podolyak added that Russia is in the process of finger-pointing and scapegoating over the failures in their “special military operation” in Ukraine, which isn’t going to plan. "That is why there will be certain reshuffles at the highest offices. In my opinion, there is an absolutely pronounced conflict between the Russian Ministry of Defense and the General Staff on the one hand, and on the other – the FSB, the Russian Guard, the PMCs, in the face of Mr. Prigozhin, who today is seen as a top pick either for the post of Minister of Defense or chief of the Russian Guard," Podolyak added. According to the adviser, what is publicly broadcast in Russia - Security Council meetings or Putin's public addresses or his communication with the Russian cabinet – does not provide real information about what exactly is happening within the elite, within Putin's closest circle. "The conflict has really entered a heated phase, everything that is happening in Russia today, after the mobilization, after several times Mr. Putin kept silent on key events, for example, the massive retreat of Russian troops from Kharkiv region, the exchange of POWs from Azovstal, the developments unfolding in Crimea - not only the bridge, but also Novofedorivka before that... He does not comment on this, so the processes of chaosization of social relations are gradually gaining a spin, I mean at the level of the political elite," said Podolyak. The adviser to the President added that today practically the entire classic Russian generalship - "that is, the basis of the foundations of the Putin regime, is in decline today, they are under great pressure today." Therefore, certain arrests are already taking place in the Russian Federation, and this will continue: "Thus, we can only expect an increase in the expressed conflict." Podolyak also took to  to ridicule what stands behind the so-called Russian “power”: “1. RF announces conscription due to the losses 2. Mobilizes criminals  3. Begging Iran for drones and North Korea for weapons 4. Wants to involve Belarus in the war 5. Threatens with nuclear weapons a non-nuclear country.” 