The Armed Forces of Ukraine have destroyed seven tanks and up to ten vehicles outside Chernihivka in the Zaporizhzhia region.

The General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine reported this on  , according to Ukrinform. According to the General Staff, as of 18:00 on September 29, Russian troops continue to focus their efforts on the full capture of the Donetsk region and the holding of occupied territories, as well as the disruption of operations by the Ukrainian defense forces in certain directions. The enemy fires at Ukrainian positions and conducts aerial reconnaissance. Russian forces strike civilian infrastructure and homes, violating the norms of international humanitarian law, laws and customs of war. There remains the threat of the enemy launching air and missile strikes on targets across Ukraine. On Sunday, October 2, Russian troops launched four missile strikes and three air strikes, using MLRS more than 15 times to strike military and civilian objects across Ukraine. More than 15 settlements were affected by enemy strikes, including Ridkodub, Kryvyi Rih, Zaporizhzhia, Zaliznychne and Mykolaiv. Before the liberation of the settlement of Lyman, separate units of the enemy tried to withdraw deep into the temporarily captured territories. On September 30, a convoy of civilian cars and minibuses carrying more than 200 servicemen from the 2nd Army Corps of the Russian occupation forces was discovered outside the settlement of Shchastia. Delays and reductions in the level of promised payments for participation in the so-called "special military operation" in Ukraine have a negative impact on Russian soldiers. According to the updated information, on October 1, a warehouse with ammunition of the invaders was destroyed near Tavriiske in the Kherson region and seven tanks and up to ten military vehicles were destroyed near Chernihivka in the Zaporizhia region. Information on personnel losses is being clarified. On Sunday, October 1, units of the Defense Forces of Ukraine repelled enemy attacks near Zaitseve, Bakhmutske, Bakhmut, Odradivka, Pervomaiske, Spirne and Vyimka. Ukrainian aircraft carried out four strikes today. Two areas of concentration weapons and military equipment, as well as two anti-aircraft missile systems of the enemy, were struck. In addition, Ukrainian air defense units shot down eight Iranian Shahed suicide drones. Ukrainian rocket troops and artillery hit five command posts, 14 areas of concentration of manpower, weapons and military equipment, three warehouses with ammunition and fuel, as well as more than 15 other important objects of the invaders. 