Over the past day, the Ukrainian troops repelled Russian attacks near Soledar, Bakhmutske, Yakovlivka, Odradivka, Zaytseve, Bakhmut, Krasnohorivka, Pobeda, Vodiane, and Liubomyrivka settlements.

This is stated in the report of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine as of 18:00, October 6, published on  . As noted, the troops of the Russian Federation try to hold the temporarily captured territories of Ukraine, focusing their efforts on attempts to disrupt the activity of the Ukrainian troops in certain areas and continuing offensive operations in Bakhmut and Avdiivka areas. In some directions, the enemy regroups its units and reinforces defense. It also fires on the Ukrainian positions along the contact line and conducts aerial reconnaissance. At the same time, the aggressors continue to attack civilian infrastructure and residential areas, violating the norms of international humanitarian law, the laws and customs of warfare. There is still a threat of airstrikes and missile strikes on the entire territory of Ukraine. Today, the Russian troops launched six missile strikes and seven airstrikes, more than 23 MLRS attacks. Objects and civilians in more than 25 settlements, including Zaporizhzhia, Shepetivka, Siversk, Bilohorivka, Olhivske, and Hoptivka, were affected by enemy shelling. In Volyn and Polissia directions, the situation has not changed significantly. The enemy opened fire in other directions. In particular, in Siversky direction, Russian troops shelled the areas of Senkivka, Yasna Poliana, and Bleshnia of Chernihiv region, and Seredyna Buda, Kyyanytsia, and Fotovyzh of Sumy region with tube artillery. In Slobozhansky direction, the enemy opened fire from tanks, mortars, tube and rocket artillery in the areas of Udy, Strilecha, Neskuchne, Hatyshche, and Vilkhuvatka. In Kramatorsk direction, the invaders attacked the areas of Spirne, Bilohorivka, Siversk, and Verkhniokamyanske using mortars, tube and rocket artillery. In Bakhmut direction, Russian troops fired artillery of various types on the areas of Soledar, Bakhmut, Yakovlivka, Kurdiumivka, New York, and Zaitseve. In Avdiivka direction, the Russians shelled the areas of Avdiivka, Kamyanka, Krasnohorivka, Pervomaiske, Paraskoviivka, Pisky, and Novomykhaylivka with tanks, mortars, tube and rocket artillery. The enemy did not carry out offensive actions in Novopavlivka and Zaporizhzhia directions. The infrastructure of more than 20 settlements, including Novoukrainka, Vremivka, Poltavka, and Novopil, were damaged by enemy shelling. In Southern Buh direction, more than 30 settlements near the contact line, including Pravdyne, Myrne, Kyselivka, Kobzartsi, and Velyke Artakove, were hit. It has been established that the partial mobilization announced by the Russian military-political leadership actually "absorbs" small settlements in remote regions of the Russian Federation. Practically the entire male population of conscription age is forcibly taken to military enlistment offices. It is noted that the Russian troops continue to use scorched-earth tactics in Ukraine. During another chaotic retreat, the enemy blew up a dam, flooding the settlement of Raihorodok. Meanwhile, in the town of Kadiivka, Luhansk region, archives and copies of documents, especially those containing the history of the occupation, are being destroyed massively. In Svatove, the main infrastructure facilities, buildings and territories have already been mined. During the day, Ukraine’s aviation struck the Russian positions 11 times. One enemy stronghold, five areas of weapons and military equipment build-up, as well as five anti-aircraft missile systems were hit. In addition, the Ukrainian air defense units shot down five enemy drones, including two Shahed-136 and one Mohajer-6. The Ukrainian missile and artillery units hit 19 areas of manpower, weapons, and military equipment build-up, two ammunition depots and six artillery systems. ol 