There are reports that the Russian invaders mine infrastructure facilities in the town of Enerhodar.

This is stated in the report of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine as of 06:00, October 6, posted on  . As noted, the enemy is trying to hold the temporarily captured territories, focuses its efforts on attempts to disrupt the active actions of the Defense Forces in certain directions, tries to go on the offensive in Bakhmut and Avdiivka directions, and regroups its units in some areas. The invaders shell the Ukrainian positions along the contact line, remotely mines the territory in some directions, conducts aerial reconnaissance, strikes civilian infrastructure and civilian homes, violating international humanitarian law, laws and customs of war. Over the past 24 hours, the occupiers launched five missile strikes rocket, eight airstrikes, more than 65 MLRS attacks. The facilities and civilian population in more than 30 settlements, including Bila Tserkva, Kupyansk, Bilohorivka, Siversk, Karlivka, Kryvyi Rih, Zaporizhzhia, Huliaypole, Prohres, Nikopol, Myrne, were damaged by enemy strikes. There is still a threat of airstrikes and missile strikes on the entire territory of Ukraine. In Volyn and Polissia directions, the situation has not changed significantly. The enemy opened fire in other directions: In Siversky direction: in the areas of Rozhkovychi and Fotovyzh settlements of Sumy region; In Slobozhansky direction: in the areas of Udy, Veterynarne, Strilecha, Krasne, Ohirtseve, Hlyboke, Neskuchne, and Milove; In Kramatorsk direction: near Verkhniokamyanske, Ivanivka, Serebrianka, and Spirne; In Bakhmut direction: in the areas of Bilohorivka, Yakovlivka, Soledar, Bakhmutske, Bakhmut, Opytne, Odradivka, Mayorsk, New York, and Yuryivka settlements; In Avdiivka direction: in the areas of Avdiivka, Pervomaiske, Vodiane, Pisky, Krasnohorivka, Marinka, Paraskoviivka, Novomykhailivka. In Novopavlivka and Zaporizhzhia directions, the enemy shelled the areas of the settlements of Novopil, Vremivka, Velyka Novosilka, Shakhtarske, Zolota Nyva, Poltavka, Huliaypole, Chervone, Pavlivka, Huliaypilske, Dorozhnianka, and Novoukrayinka. In Southern Buh direction, the occupiers continue to regroup and withdraw their units. More than 30 settlements along the contact line were shelled with tanks, mortars, tube and rocket artillery. In particular, Velyke Artakove, Bilohirka, Blahodativka, Andriivka, Pervomaiske, Liubomyrivka, Soldatske, Pravdyne, Myrne, and Oleksandrivka came under fire. Over the past day, the Ukrainian troops repelled enemy attacks in the areas of Vyimka, Soledar, Odradivka, Bakhmutske, Bakhmut, Krasnohorivka, Mayorsk, and Novomykhailivka settlements. Ukraine’s Air Force launched more than fifteen strikes. Twelve areas of enemy weapons and military equipment build-up, as well as four anti-aircraft missile systems, were hit. In addition, nine enemy UAVs were shot down. Over the past day, missile and artillery units struck two enemy command posts, fourteen areas of manpower, weapons, and military equipment build-up, an ammunition depot, as well as eight other important enemy objects. ol 