Ukraine’s Air Force has launched more than 10 strikes on enemy positions over the past day. Nine Russian ammunition and military equipment clusters and two air defense missile systems were confirmed as destroyed.

In the Kherson direction, Russian troops have suffered significant losses and are evacuating the wounded across the Dnieper. The relevant statement was made by the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine on  , an Ukrinform correspondent reports. According to the General Staff, Russian troops are trying to hold the temporarily occupied areas, focusing efforts on attempts to disrupt the active actions of Ukraine’s Defense Forces in certain directions. The enemy continues attempts to conduct offensive actions in the Bakhmut and Avdiivka directions. In certain directions, Russian troops are regrouping. Russian invaders are opening fire on Ukrainian positions along the contact line, conducting remote mining operations in certain directions and air reconnaissance. The Russian military continue to strike civil infrastructure and residential areas, violating international humanitarian law, and the laws and customs of war. The threat of air and missile strikes is persisting all over Ukraine. Over the past day, Russian troops launched three missile strikes and two air strikes, and opened fire with multiple launch rocket systems (MLRS) over 15 times. Over 20 settlements came under enemy fire, including Bila Tserkva, Ridkodub, Siversk, Soledar, Bilohirka, Karlivka, Zaporizhzhia, Nikopol, Kryvyi Rih and Myrne. In the Volyn and Polissia directions, the situation remained rather unchanged. In other directions, Russian troops opened fire as follows: in the Siverskyi direction – near the Sumy region’s Holyshivske and Pysarivka; in the Slobozhanskyi direction – near such settlements as Ivashky, Huriv Kozachok, Udy, Ridkodub, Vovchansk and Dvorichna; in the Kramatorsk direction – near Kivsharivka, Kamianka, Novoliubivka, Terny, Torske, Ivanivka, Serebrianka, Spirne and Bilohorivka; in the Bakhmut direction – near Rozdolivka, Bilohorivka, Yakovlivka, Soledar, Bakhmutske, Bakhmut, Opytne, Ivanhrad, Zaitseve, Odradivka, New York and Yurivka; in the Avdiivka direction – near Avdiivka, Pervomaiske, Vodiane, Krasnohorivka, Marinka and Novomykhailivka. In the Novopavlivka and Zaporizhzhia directions, Russian invaders did not conduct active offensive operations. The enemy opened fire near Volodymyrivka, Novosilka, Vremivka, Shakhtarske, Zolota Nyva, Prechystivka, Pavlivka, Vesele, Chervone, Dorozhnianka and Mala Tokmachka. In the Southern Bug direction, Russian troops continue to regroup and withdraw their units. Over 25 settlements came under enemy fire along the contact line, namely Velyke Artakove, Bilohirka, Blahodativka, Andriivka, Novohrednieve, Sukhyi Stavok, Luch, Stepova Dolyna, Soldatske, Pravdyne and Myrne. Over the past day, Ukraine’s Defense Forces have repelled enemy attacks near such settlements as Vyimka, Bakhmutske, Bakhmut, Maiorsk and Novomykhailivka. In the temporarily occupied city of Enerhodar, Russian invaders continue to exert moral and psychological pressure on Zaporizhzhya NPP’s staff members. According to the available information, Ukrainian employees are forced to obtain Russian passports and sign labor contracts with Rosatom. As a result of the successful actions of Ukraine’s Defense Forces in the Kherson direction, Russian units suffered losses and are trying to evacuate the wounded and equipment to the nearest crossings across the Dnieper. In particular, up to 150 wounded Russian soldiers and about 50 damaged military equipment units were transported to Vesele, which is situated near Kakhovka HPP. In the temporarily occupied territory of the Luhansk region, due to a large number of the wounded and local medical facilities being overloaded, the enemy is using a school as a military hospital. According to the preliminary information, up to 200 wounded servicemen are remaining there. The Russian military command continues to recruit prisoners in order to replenish personnel losses. According to the preliminary information, over 650 prisoners from the high-security correctional colonies of Russia’s Stavropol Krai agreed to take part in hostilities on the territory of Ukraine. Over the past day, Ukraine’s Air Force has launched over 10 strikes on enemy positions. Nine Russian ammunition and military equipment clusters and two air defense missile systems were confirmed as destroyed. In addition, the Ukrainian anti-aircraft defense units shot down seven enemy unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), including six Iranian-manufactured suicide drones. Ukraine’s missile and artillery units struck two Russian command posts, as well as 12 personnel, ammunition and military equipment clusters, and 10 other important targets. mk 