The aviation of the Armed Forces of Ukraine launched 21 airstrikes on enemy positions, hitting 16 areas of concentration of manpower and strongholds of the Russian forces, as well as 5 positions of air defense systems in the past 24 hours.

This is stated in the latest   of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine published on Facebook, Ukrinform reports. "The enemy continues to focus its efforts on attempts to fully occupy Donetsk region, organize defense and keep control of the captured territories, as well as disrupt the active operations of the Defense Forces in certain directions,” the report reads. In particular, the Russian forces fire at Ukrainian positions along the contact line, take measures to regroup their units in separate directions, deploy reserves and continue to conduct aerial reconnaissance. The invaders do not stop striking the civilian houses and infrastructure facilities, violating the norms of International Humanitarian Law, the laws and customs of war. Over the past day, the Russian military launched 3 missile strikes and 22 airstrikes, more than 90 MLRS attacks on facilities in the territory of Ukraine. According to the General Staff, the infrastructure of more than 30 settlements was affected, including Mykolaiv, Zaporizhzhia, Soledar, Bilohirya, Novopil, Pershotravneve, Temyrivka, Sukhyi Stavok, Myroliubivka, Petrivka, Bereznehuvate, Bilohorivka, Spirne, Krasnohorivka, Stepova and Olhivske. There is still a threat of airstrikes and missile strikes throughout the territory of Ukraine. In the Volyn and Polissia directions, the situation has not changed significantly. In other directions, the enemy opened fire from tanks, mortars and artillery. In the Slobozhanshchyna direction, the areas of Hoptivka, Huryiv Kozachok, Kamianka and Kupiansk came under enemy attack. In the Kramatorsk direction, the enemy struck Sviatohirsk, Raihorodok, Serebrianka and Bilohorivka. In the Bakhmut direction, Siversk, Rozdolivka, Soledar, Bakhmutske, Bakhmut, Vesela Dolyna, New York, Yuryivka, Rozivka and Zaitseve came under enemy fire. In the Avdiivka direction, the Russian invaders shelled Avdiivka, Opytne, Karlivka, Kostiantynivka, Maryinka and Pervomaiske. In the Novopavlivske and Zaporizhzhia directions, Vuhledar, Velyka Novosilka, Mali Shcherbaky, Myrne, Vilne Pole and Vremivka were struck. In the Southern Buh direction, the enemy was shelling along the entire contact line. More than 18 settlements came under enemy fire, including Bila Krynytsia, Myroliubivka, Visokopillia and Andriivka. Over the past day, units of the Ukrainian Defense Forces have repelled enemy attacks in the areas of Mykolaivka Druha, Vesela Dolyna and Bakhmut. The aviation of the Ukrainian defense forces launched 21 airstrikes, hitting 16 areas of concentration of enemy manpower and strongholds, as well as 5 positions of air defense systems of the Russian invaders. iy 