The fire control of the Armed Forces of Ukraine stopped the repair works on a bridge in Nova Kakhovka, and a column of military equipment about to cross the Dnipro River was hit.

"The situation in the area of ​​responsibility in Southern Buh direction is quite difficult, dynamic, but controlled. The defense forces continue to conduct active actions, forcing the enemy to abandon the occupied positions, to set up new lines of defense. Having no success and prospects on land, the enemy resorts to fire and psychological pressure, technogenic blackmail, and the use of kamikaze drones," the Operational Command "South"  . Over the past day, the Russians launched nine airstrikes and one missile strike on the Ukrainian positions and settlements with the civilian population. The General Staff informs that the enemy intensified the use of kamikaze drones to attack civilian infrastructure facilities, including in the rear areas far from the front line. "In the afternoon, two attack drones were sent to the coastal zone of Ochakiv. One drone was shot down, the second attacked the coast. People were not injured. Having inspected the parts of the downed drone, Iranian-made Shahed-136 kamikaze drone was identified, which the Russian occupation forces label as Geran-2. It is a loitering munition weighing 200 kg and with a wingspan of 2.5 meters," the General Staff said. In the evening, the aggressor hit Bashtanka district with two Smerch rockets. Electricity supply was cut off in several settlements. No casualties were reported. The Air Force of the Armed Forces of Ukraine launched seven strikes on the enemy. An enemy Su-25 attack aircraft was destroyed in the sky above Charivne, Kherson region. In the area of Murakhivka, Mykolaiv region, two Orlan-10 drones were shot down, ending the occupiers’ attempt of aerial reconnaissance. Missile and artillery units performed more than 210 fire missions, striking a command post of enemy troops in Beryslav district, forces and equipment clusters in Havrylivka and Chornobayivka areas, the Daryivka Bridge, and a pontoon crossing near Nova Kakhovka. Also in Nova Kakhovka, the fire control stopped the repair works on the bridge and damaged a column of military equipment that was about to cross the Dnipro River. The enemy lost 151 soldiers and more than 40 units of equipment, including seven tanks, 19 armored vehicles, four howitzers (Msta-S, Msta-B, Akatsiya), four self-propelled artillery systems. "Reconnaissance data from previous attacks indicate that another 62 ruscists, five armored vehicles were eliminated, and an ammunition warehouse in Blahodatne, the command post of the 7th air assault division in Chornobayivka was damaged," the Operational Command "South" added. As reported, the Armed Forces of Ukraine eliminated about 54,810 Russian soldiers from February 24 to September 20. ol 