The Armed Forces of Ukraine repelled enemy attacks near Soledar, Vyimka, Kurdiumivka, Zaitseve, Novomykhailivka, Pervomaiske and Pavlivka settlements.

The General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine said this in its latest operational  , Ukrinform reports. According to the operational information as of 18:00 on September 25, the enemy continues to focus its efforts on attempts to fully occupy Donetsk region, keep control of the captured territories, as well as disrupt the active operations of the Ukrainian defense forces in certain directions. The enemy opens fire at Ukrainian troops' positions along the contact line, conducts aerial reconnaissance and attempts to regain lost positions in certain directions. “The enemy continues to attack civilian infrastructure and civilian residential areas. There is still a threat of airstrikes and missile strikes throughout the territory of Ukraine,” the report says. According to the General Staff, during the current day, the Russian forces have launched 4 missile strikes and 7 airstrikes, more than 24 MLRS attacks on military and civilian facilities in the territory of Ukraine, violating the norms of International Humanitarian Law, the laws and customs of war. As a result of enemy shelling, the infrastructure of more than 35 settlements was damaged, including Kupiansk, Bilohorivka, Spirne, Bakhmutske, Bakhmut, New York, Krasnohorivka, Kurakhove, Novomykhailivka, Pavlivka, Zaporizhzhia, Volodymyrivske, Ochakiv, Mykolaiv, Myroliubivka, Novovoznesenske, Sukhyi Stavok and Odesa. In the Volyn and Polissia directions, the situation has not undergone significant change. In other directions, the enemy used tanks, mortars and artillery of various calibers to shell the Ukrainian positions. In Siverskyi direction, the areas of Huta-Studenetska and Bleshnia of Chernihiv region and Bachivsk, Shalyhyne and Seredyna Buda of Sumy region came under enemy fire. In the Slobozhanske direction, the Russian forces shelled the areas of Strilecha, Huryiv Kozachok, Stohniy, Udy, Veterynarne and Kupiansk settlements. In the Kramatorsk direction, the enemy struck the areas of Sloviansk, Koroviy Yar, Bohorodychne, Yarova, Pryshyb and Ozerne. In the Bakhmut direction - Soledar, Bakhmut, Bakhmutske, Odradivka, Zaitseve, Opytne, Yakovlivka, New York, Mayorsk, Nelipovka, Yuryivka, Vyimka, Bilohorivka, Rozdolivka, Spirne, Vesele and Verkhniokamianske. In the Avdiivka direction - Avdiivka, Opytne, Pervomaiske, Vodiane, Krasnohorivka, Novomykhailivka, Maryinka and Paraskoviivka. In the Novopavlivka and Zaporizhzhia directions, the Russian forces shelled 18 settlements, including Mykilske, Vuhledar, Prechystivka, Zolota Nyva, Velyka Novosilka, Novomayorske, Vremivka, Pavlivka, Zaliznychne, Shevchenko, Bilohirya, Poltavka, Novosilka, Novopil, Temyrivka, Vremivka, Chervone and Olhivske. In the Southern Buh direction, more than 38 settlements came under enemy shelling, including Novovoznesenske, Arkhanhelske, Sukhyi Stavok, Pervomaiske, Marhanets and Nikopol. The enemy UAVs made more than 60 sorties in order to carry out reconnaissance, adjust fire, and launch strikes on civilian infrastructure. To support the actions of ground groups, the aviation of the Ukrainian defense forces launched 21 strikes. It was confirmed that 14 areas of concentration of enemy manpower and military equipment and 7 air defense positions were struck. In addition, Ukrainian air defense units in different directions destroyed two enemy drones. "During the current day, missile and artillery troops, in particular, struck 6 command posts, 11 areas of concentration of enemy manpower and equipment, two air defense positions, three units of missile troops and artillery, 6 ammunition depots, as well as 8 separate important targets,” the General Staff said. iy 