The Ukrainian forces over the past day repelled Russian attacks in the areas of Vyimka, Bakhmutske, Krasna Hora, Bakhmut, Maiorsk, Andriyivka, Pervomaiske, Vesele, Kamianka, Pobieda, Nevelske, Novomykhailivka, and Ternovi Pody.

That’s according to the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Ukrinform reports referring to the evening war  posted on Facebook. Russian troops are trying to hold captured ground and focusing efforts on disrupting Ukrainian operations in certain areas, at the same time running offensive action in the Bakhmut and Avdiivka directions. The enemy is shelling the positions of Ukrainian troops along the contact line, while fortifying defensive positions and lines in separate directions and conducting aerial reconnaissance. They also continue to inflict strikes on civilian infrastructure and households, violating international humanitarian law, laws and customs of war. There remains the threat of air and missile strikes across the entire territory of Ukraine. Throughout the day, the occupiers launched two missile and five air strikes, also employing multiple rocket launch systems 10 times. Civilian objects and population of more nearly a dozen settlements came under enemy fire, including Ridkodub, Hulyaipilske, Novoandriyivka, Zaporizhia, Mykolaiv, and Slavhorod. The enemy flew four Iranian-made Shahed-136 kamikaze drones to strike the populated areas of Zaporizhia and Mykolaiv. The situation in the Volyn and Polissya directions has not changed significantly. In other directions, Russian occupiers opened fire: The Russian occupation authorities continue to exert pressure on the citizens of Ukraine who remained in the temporarily occupied territory of Donetsk region. According to available intelligence, in some areas of the town of Horlivka, representatives of "security bodies" intimidate local residents who did not support the accession of the temporarily occupied area to the Russian Federation in a sham referendum. Men dodging military draft are being located, detained, and forcibly deployed to replenish the units of the 1st Army Corps, which have suffered major casualties. According to the intelligence reports, there are significant problems with the material support of the military call-up measures carried out by the Russian military leadership. Early October, of the 8,000 persons called up for service, who were staying at the base of the Novosibirsk Higher Command School, only nearly half were provided with uniform. In addition, the draftees get only basic field uniform and shoes while being told to obtain the rest of the gear at their own expense or from local authorities as humanitarian aid. Another problematic issue is providing the freshly called-up servicemen with helmets and body armor. Russian occupiers continue to suffer losses in the south of Ukraine. In the area of ​​Kakhovka, Kherson region, a manpower cluster was hit, as well as military equipment, including air defense. Also, as a result of effective fire damage inflicted to a manpower cluster near the village of Borozenske on October 5, enemy casualties amounted to 10 killed and nearly 20 wounded. Ukraine’s Air Force carried out 11 strikes throughout the day. It was confirmed that eight clusters of weapons and military equipment, as well as three anti-aircraft missile systems were destroyed. In addition, air defense units s shot down two enemy UAVs and two helicopters. Missile and artillery forces hit a manpower and weapons cluster, as well as a pontoon crossing and an e-warfare system. 