The "partial mobilization" declared in the Russian Federation has caused delays in vacations and cash payments to Russian military personnel in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine.

The General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine said this in its latest operational  , Ukrinform reports. "The occupiers continue to focus their efforts on attempts to fully occupy Donetsk region and hold the captured territories, as well as disrupt the active operations of the Defense Forces in certain directions. They shell the positions of our troops along the contact line, conduct aerial reconnaissance, and attempt to regain control of the lost positions in certain directions. The enemy continues to destroy the civilian infrastructure and houses of civilians. The threat of air and missile strikes persists throughout Ukraine," the report says. Over the past 24 hours, the Russian invaders launched 7 missile and 22 airstrikes, more than 67 MLRS attacks on facilities in Ukraine, violating the norms of International Humanitarian Law, the laws and customs of war. According to the General Staff, more than 35 settlements was affected, including Zaporizhzhia, Ochakiv, Mykolaiv, Myroliubivka, New York, Bilohorivka, Krasnohorivka, Pavlivka and Mayorsk. The situation in the Volyn and Polissia directions has not changed significantly. In other directions, the enemy used tanks, mortars and artillery of various types to attack the Ukrainian positions. In the Siverskyi direction, the enemy struck the areas of Huta-Studenetska of Chernihiv region and Bachivsk of Sumy region. In the Slobozhanske direction, the areas of Strelecha, Huryiv Kozachok, Dvorichne, Kupiansk and Kucherivka came under enemy fire. In the Kramatorsk direction, the Russian forces shelled the areas of Sloviansk, Koroviy Yar, Bohorodychne, Yarova and Ozerne. In the Bakhmut direction – the areas of Soledar, Bakhmut, Bakhmutske, Opytne, Yakovlivka, Nelipovka, Yuryivka, Bilohorivka, Rozdolivka. In the Avdiivka direction - Avdiivka, Vodiane, Maryinka and Paraskoviivka. In the Novopavlivka direction, the enemy used tanks, mortars and barrel artillery to shell more than 20 settlements, including Mykilske, Vuhledar, Kurdiumivka, Prechystivka, Shevchenko, Bilohirya, Temyrivka, Vremivka and Olhivske. In the Southern Buh direction, more than 25 settlements along the contact line came under enemy fire. The enemy UAVs made more than 30 sorties in order to carry out reconnaissance, adjust fire, and launch strikes on civilian infrastructure. In connection with the partial mobilization announced by the Russian military and political leadership, the Russian command in the temporarily occupied territories is trying to limit the rights of servicemen of the armed forces of the Russian Federation, who have signed short-term contracts. In the units of the occupiers in Zaporizhzhia region, it was announced that the term of the contract does not matter, and the time of stay in the combat zone from now on depends on the decision of the command. In addition, the “partial mobilization” declared in the Russian Federation caused the delay in vacations and cash payments, leading to a significant deterioration of the morale and psychological state in the enemy's units. According to the General Staff, units of the Ukrainian defense forces repelled enemy attacks in the areas of Soledar, Vyimka, Kurdiumivka, Zaitseve, Novomykhailivka, and Pervomaiske settlements over the past day. iy 