Russia, as a terrorist state, does not want peace, while negotiations on speeding up the supply of weapons to Ukraine are the only format for bringing peace closer.

That’s according to President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine, who delivered a video  to the nation Sunday evening, Ukrinform reports. Zelensky said he would like to address the appeal to those in the world who are subject to Russian manipulation about the alleged negotiations, that allegedly only negotiations can end the brutal war of terror Russia is waging. "Fundamental and sufficient aid to Ukraine is needed. Aid to our people, who are a target of a terrorist state. The provision of a sufficient number of effective air defense systems to Ukraine must be sped up. It is the negotiations on the supply of such air defense systems, it is the negotiations on the increase of other defenses, as well as political and financial support of Ukraine, is the only possible negotiation format that can really bring peace closer," the president said. He added that the terrorist state does not want peace, proving this every day and night by shelling Ukrainian cities. "Do negotiations really help overcome terror? Now everyone has to honestly answer this question. Terrorists get neutralized... If terror goes unpunished, if a terrorist succeeds in intimidation so much that someone in the world wants to just agree to turn a blind eye to terror, then that would be a loss – loss of freedom, loss of humanity and loss of democracy. This is exactly what Russia wants. This is exactly why it needs all this terror – from missile strikes to global crises provoked by a terrorist state," the president added. The head of state noted that now the world is united and everyone understands what Russia is actually waging the war in Ukraine against: "This is a Russian war against all those values ​​that make people human and life – peaceful." He has emphasized that Ukraine will win this war, liberate all of its lands, and put the terrorist state in its place. "Russia must be held accountable for terror. Only this will ensure that the confrontation won’t grow to an even greater scale, spilling over into other countries. But to this end we must maintain maximum unity – the unity of all people of the world who value peace, respect the right to life for everyone, and are honest enough to admit: constant terror against the civilian population is Russia’s obvious refusal from real negotiations," the president noted. Zelensky emphasized that it is necessary to officially recognize Russia as a terrorist state – at all levels. It is necessary to limit any economic contacts with any Russian subjects – as no one should be a sponsor of terrorism. "We need a clear condemnation at all levels of every escalatory step of Russia – from terrorist attacks to the criminal attempt to annex our territory. The relevant resolution will be considered by the UN General Assembly in a few days. We will see from the vote how they treat terrorists," added the president. As reported, the head of the ruling parliamentary faction, David Arakhamia, said Ukraine was ready to negotiate only with Western countries and only the issue of the country’s accession to NATO. Earlier, during an address to the UN General Assembly, President Volodymyr Zelensky said Russia is afraid of real negotiations with Ukraine and unwilling to fulfill any international obligations. 