The enemy continues to focus its efforts on attempts to fully occupy Donetsk region and hold the captured territories, as well as disrupt the operations of Ukraine’s Defense Forces in certain directions.

That’s according to the   of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Ukrinform reports. "The enemy is shelling the positions of our troops along the contact line, conducting aerial reconnaissance. It is striking civilian infrastructure and civilian homes, violating the norms of International Humanitarian Law, the laws and customs of warfare. There remains a threat of the enemy launching air and missile strikes on the entire territory of Ukraine," the morning update reads. Over the past day, the occupiers have launched 11 missile and 10 air strikes, carried out more than 65 shellings using MLR systems. More than 35 settlements came under fire, including Ridkodub, Sloviansk, Kramatorsk, Bilohorivka, Bakhmut, Netaylovye, Vodiane, Maryinka, Vremivka, Kryvyi Rih, Zaporizhia, Zaliznychne, and Mykolaiv. In the Volyn and Polissia directions, the situation remains unchanged. In other directions, the enemy fired on Ukraine’s positions, employing tanks and artillery of various types: in the Siverskyi direction – in the areas of Ukrainske, Chernihiv region and Basivka, Pisarivka, and Kyyanytsia, Sumy region; in the Kramatorsk direction – in the areas of Novosadove, Terny, Yampil, Siversk, Verkhnokamianske, and Spirne; in the Bakhmut direction – in the areas of Fedorivka, Rozdolivka, Vesele, Bilohorivka, Yakovlivka, Soledar, Bakhmutske, Bakhmut, Odradivka, Zaitseve, Toretsk, Mayorsk, Nelipivka, and Yuryivka; in the Avdiivka direction – Avdiivka, Pervomaiske, Vodiane, Karlivka, Krasnohorivka, Maryinka, and Novomykhailivka; in the Novopavlivka and Zaporizhia directions, the enemy shelled the areas of Vremivka, Velyka Novosilka, Neskuchne, Novoukrainka, Prechistivka, Vugledar, Pavlivka, Mykilske, Rivnopillia, Olhivske, Zaliznychne, and Mala Tokmachka, using mortars, tanks, and jet artillery; in the Southern Buh direction, the areas of more than 45 settlements along the contact line were shelled. According to the updated reports, it was confirmed that enemy personnel and military equipment were hit in the Zaporizhia region in the previous days. There losses include a manpower cluster, three ammunition depots, more than 20 units of military equipment, and an S-300 anti-aircraft missile complex. In total, more than 250 injured are reported. Information on the death toll is being clarified. Over the past day, units of Ukraine’s Defense Forces repelled enemy attacks in the areas of Zaitseve, Bakhmutske, Bakhmut, Odradivka, Vyimka, Spirne, Nevelske, and Pervomaiske settlements. Ukraine’s Air Force carried out seven strikes during the past 24 hours. It was confirmed that the command post, five equipment clusters, as well as the enemy's anti-aircraft missile complex were hit. In addition, Ukraine’s air defense units shot down a Ka-52 helicopter, a Su-25 attack aircraft, and eight unmanned aerial vehicles. Over the past day, missile and artillery forces hit two command posts, fourteen manpower and equipment clusters, three ammunition and fuel depots, as well as eight other important enemy targets. 