The Ukrainian troops repelled the attacks of the Russian invaders near eight settlements. The missile and artillery units struck more than 20 enemy objects.

This is stated in the report of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine as of 18:00, September 18, published on  . As noted, the troops of the Russian Federation continue to focus their efforts on attempts to fully occupy Donetsk region, organize defense and hold the captured territories, as well as to disrupt the active actions of the Ukrainian troops in certain directions. The enemy fires at the positions of Ukrainian defenders along the contact line, takes measures to regroup its units in certain directions, deploys reserves, and continues to conduct aerial reconnaissance. The invaders do not stop striking the civilian houses and infrastructure facilities, violating the norms of International Humanitarian Law, the laws and customs of war. During the day, the Russian military launched three missile strikes and 11 airstrikes, more than 40 MLRS attacks on objects in the territory of Ukraine. The infrastructure of more than 20 settlements, including Kramatorsk, Siversk, Serebrianka, Dvorichna, Kamyanka, Spirne, Verkhniokamyanske, Krasnohorivka, Novomykhaylivka, Neskuchne, Poltavka, Uspenivka, Myroliubivka, Biliayivka, and Vysokopillia, was damaged by enemy fire There is still a threat of airstrikes and missile strikes throughout the territory of Ukraine. According to the General Staff data, the situation in Volyn and Polissia directions has not changed significantly. In other directions, Russian troops opened fire from tanks, mortars, and artillery. In particular, in Siversky direction, the enemy shelled the areas of Huta-Studenetska, Chernihiv region, and Rozhkovychi, Sosnivka, and Katerynivka, Sumy region. In Slobozhansky direction, the invaders hit the areas of Hoptivka, Strilecha, Kozacha Lopan, Kudiivka, Vysoka Yaruha, Vovchansk, Hatyshch, Budarky, Kupyansk, and Mykolaivka; in Kramatorsk direction – in the areas of Kryva Luka, Pyskunivka, Raihorodok, Bilohorivka, Ozerne, and Hryhorivka. In Bakhmut direction, the Russian troops struck the areas of Mykolaivka, Siversk, Rozdolivka, Soledar, Bakhmutske, Bakhmut, New York, Yakovlivka, Zaytseve, and Mayorsk; in Avdiivka direction – the areas of Kostiantynivka, Avdiivka, Kamyanka, Opytne, Pervomaiske, Karlivka, and Vodiane. In Novopavlivka and Zaporizhzhia directions, about 25 localities came under enemy fire, including Vuhledar, Prechystivka, Velyka Novosilka, Mykilske, Kamyanske, Zaliznychne, and Novopavlivka. In Southern Buh direction, the invaders inflicted fire damage along the entire line of contact. According to the General Staff data, more than 30 settlements came under enemy fire, including Ukrainka, Myrne, Kvitneve, Novorosiyske, Kobzartsi, and Olhyne. It was established that the measures of "internal self-mobilization" are being taken in the territory of the Russian Federation due to the lack of human resources to be sent to the war in Ukraine. Over the past day, the Ukrainian troops repelled the Russian attacks in the areas of Kupyansk, Hoptivka, Mykolayivka Druha, Vesela Dolyna, Odradivka, Marinka, Novomykhailivka, and Pravdyne. Today, Ukrainian aviation has launched 20 airstrikes. The damage to 15 enemy manpower clusters and strongholds and four positions of anti-aircraft missile systems was confirmed. In addition, the Ukrainian air defense units destroyed one enemy drone. The missile and artillery troops of the Armed Forces of Ukraine struck more than 20 objects of the Russian troops, including seven control posts and nine strongholds, personnel and military equipment clusters. The enemy's anti-aircraft defense facilities and pontoon crossings fell into the affected area. ol 