Russian troops continue efforts to fully seize the Donetsk region, establish defenses and hold the captured areas, as well as disrupt the active actions of Ukraine’s Defense Forces in certain directions. The enemy opens fire all over the contact line, attempts to recapture their lost positions and conducts air reconnaissance.

The relevant statement was made by the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine on  , an Ukrinform correspondent reports. Russian invaders continue striking civilian infrastructure and residential areas. The threat of air and missile strikes is persisting all over Ukraine. Over the past day, Russian troops have launched four missile strikes and 27 air strikes, and used multiple launch rocket systems against military and civilian objects within the territory of Ukraine over 75 times, violating international humanitarian law, and the laws and customs of war. Russian projectiles hit over 45 settlements, namely Pechenihy, Pryshyb, Yarova, Spirne, Vesele, Bakhmut, Marinka, Krasnohorivka, Kostiantynivka, Neskuchne, Poltavka, Yehorivka, Bezimenne, Kryvyi Rih, Bilohiria, Zaporizhzhia, Bilohirka, Pervomaiske, Mykolaiv, Ochakiv, Vysokopillia, Sukhyi Stavok, Myroliubivka and Novohryhorivka. In the Volyn and Polissia directions, the situation remained rather unchanged. In other directions, the enemy used tanks, mortars and different artillery systems to open fire as follows: in the Siverskyi direction – near the Sumy region’s Shalyhyne, Myropilske, Volfyne and Yizdetske; in the Slobozhanskyi direction – near Dubnivka, Hoptivka, Vovchansk, Kamianka and Kupiansk; in the Kramatorsk direction – Maiaky, Mykolaivka, Dibrova, Kryva Luka, Pryshyb and Siversk; in the Bakhmut direction – Soledar, Bakhmutske, Bakhmut, Vesela Dolyna, Zaitseve, Vesele, Bilohorivka and Yakovlivka; in the Avdiivka direction – Krasnohorivka, Opytne, Marinka, Novomykhailivka; in the Novopavlivka direction – Vuhledar, Zolota Nyva, Neskuchne, Vremivka, Novoukrainka, Velyka Novosilka. In the Zaporizhzhia direction, Russian troops did not take active actions but launched artillery strikes on such settlements as Mala Tokmachka, Nova Tokmachka, Mali Shcherbaky, Zelene Pole, Zaliznychne and Rivnopillia. In the Southern Bug direction, over 20 settlements came under enemy fire. Russian troops continue to suffer losses, namely in terms of senior staff. According to the available data, as Ukrainian forces inflicted fire damage near Svatove, Commander of the 144th Motor Rifle Division of the 20th Combined Arms Army, Major General Tsokov was injured. Reportedly, he was evacuated on September 20. On September 19-20, 2022, a military hospital in Russia’s Rostov-on-Don received 105 bodies of Russian soldiers. They are making preparations to receive 200 more bodies in the near future. In order to replenish personnel losses, Russian invaders continue forcible mobilization within the temporarily occupied areas. On September 19, 2022, 10 men were detained by the representatives of the 1st Army Corps in Horlivka and forced to do military service, irrespective of their health condition or age. On September 18-20, 2022, the representatives of the Russian private company attempted to recruit prisoners at Luhansk detention center. As part of partial mobilization measures, the occupation authorities in Crimea announced reservists would be recruited mostly among the employees of private security companies who have military service experience. In Sevastopol, some companies have already been instructed to make a list of those who meet the requirements. Over the past day, the Ukrainian military have repelled enemy attacks near such settlements as Kupiansk, Spirne, Maiorsk, Zaitseve, Avdiivka, Novomykhailivka, Opytne and Kamianka. Ukraine’s air forces struck 25 enemy personnel and military equipment clusters and six air defense system positions. Across different directions, the Ukrainian anti-aircraft defense units destroyed Russia’s Mi-8 helicopter and nine unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs). Ukraine’s missile and artillery units inflicted fire damage on six enemy command posts, four personnel and military equipment clusters, three air defense system positions, three artillery positions and three ammunition depots. mk 