The enemy continues to focus its efforts on attempts to fully occupy Donetsk region, organize defense and keep control of the captured territories, as well as disrupt the active operations of the Defense Forces in certain directions. The Armed Forces of Ukraine repelled Russian offensives near eight settlements.

This is stated in the latest   of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine published on Facebook, Ukrinform reports. “The enemy opens fire at the positions of our troops along the contact line, takes measures to regroup its troops, and constantly conducts aerial reconnaissance," the report says. According to the General Staff, during the current day, the Russian military have launched 7 missile strikes and 20 airstrikes, more than 15 MLRS attacks on military and civilian facilities in the territory of Ukraine, violating the norms of International Humanitarian Law, the laws and customs of war. As a result of the terrorist actions of the Russian troops, the infrastructure of more than 20 settlements was damaged during the current day, including Sloviansk, Siversk, Soledar, Bakhmut, Vuhledar, Stepne, Nikopol and Ochakiv. In the settlement of Pechenihy, the invaders attempted to destroy the dam of the Pechenihy Reservoir, but had no success. The General Staff stresses that there is still a threat of airstrikes and missile strikes throughout the territory of Ukraine. In the Volyn and Polissia directions, the situation has not undergone significant change. In other directions, the enemy used tanks, mortars, and artillery of various calibers to shell the Ukrainian positions: in the Siverskyi direction, the areas of Mykhailove and Huta Studenetska of Chernihiv region and Novovasylivka and Riasne of Sumy region came under enemy fire; in the Slobozhanshchyna direction, the enemy struck the areas of Kozacha Lopan, Strelecha, Hlyboke, Derhachi, Fyholivka, Dvorichna, Shevchenkove, Kupiansk and Kamianka; in the Kramatorsk direction – Yarova, Pryshyb, Donetske, Serebrianka, Shchurove, Raihorodok, Ozerne, Kryva Luka, Mykolaivka, Siversk, Ivano-Daryivka, Rozdolivka, Oleksandrivka and Hryhorivka; in the Bakhmut direction – Verkhniokamianske, Vyimka, Spirne, Vesele, Bilohorivka, Yakovlivka, Soledar, Bakhmutske, Bakhmut, Vesela Dolyna, Odradivka, Mykolaivka Druha, Zaitseve, Mayorsk and New York; in the Avdiivka direction – Krasnohorivka, Maryinka, Novomykhailivka, Pervomaiske; in the Zaporizhzhia direction - Novosilka, Novopil, Vremivka, Velyka Novosilka, Vuhledar, Novomayorske, Zaliznychne, Huliaipole, Malynivka, Chervone, Dorozhnianka, Mali Shcherbaky, Mala Tokmachka and Kamianske. In the Southern Buh direction, more than 25 settlements came under enemy shelling, including Vysokopillia, Myroliubivka, Novohryhorivka, Bilohirka, Blahodativka, Shyroke, Zoria, Shevchenkove, Ternovi Pody, Pravdyne, Myrne and Oleksandrivka. Units of the Defense Forces repelled enemy attacks in the areas of Vesele, Kurdiumivka, Mykolaivka Druha, Zaitseve, Mayorsk, Pervomaiske, Maryinka, and Novomykhailivka. iy                