The enemy is trying to hold temporarily captured territories, concentrating efforts on attempts to disrupt a counter-offensive of the Ukrainian defense forces in certain directions, periodically conducting offensive operations.

The General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine said this in its  , Ukrinform reports. "Almost 40 combat clashes took place in the past 24 hours. The tensest situation was observed in the Bakhmut and Avdiivka directions, where our defenders repelled more than 30 enemy attacks," the report said. The enemy is shelling the positions of Ukrainian troops along the contact line, building defensive lines and positions in certain directions, and carrying out aerial reconnaissance using UAVs. The enemy continues to violate the norms of international humanitarian law, the laws and customs of warfare. In the past day, the occupiers launched three rocket strikes and 26 air strikes, using multiple rocket launchers more than 75 times. At night, the Russian occupiers cynically struck the residential buildings and civilian infrastructure of Zaporizhzhia. Information about casualties is being clarified, but dozens are known to have been killed and injured in the attack. In addition, Russian forces shelled more than 30 settlements, including Kharkiv, Chasiv Yar, Popivka, Hrabovske, Makiivka, Spirne, Bilohorivka, Ivanhrad, Opytne, Klishchiivka, Novomykhailivka, Vuhledar, Nikopol, Urozhaine and Davydiv Brid. At the same time, the Ukrainian defense forces struck concentrations of the enemy's manpower, wounding more than 20 enemy soldiers, who were taken to a hospital in Tokmak. According to available information, in the Melitopol district of the Zaporizhzhia region, under the guise of searching for and fighting partisans, the occupying forces search and steal private cars in the garages of the district. In the Southern Bug direction, areas of more than 45 settlements near the contact line came under shelling. Among them are Sukhyi Stavok, Kvitneve, Myrne, Zoria and Ternovi Pody. The enemy and his henchmen are fleeing, frightened by the successes of the Ukrainian defense forces. Representatives of the occupying authorities of Nova Kakhovka are taking their families to the temporarily occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. According to available information, on October 7, a convoy of 12 minibuses left for the city of Sevastopol. A similar situation was observed in the Luhansk region. Collaborators were evacuated from Starobilsk to Luhansk. Over the past day, units of the Defense Forces of Ukraine repelled enemy attacks outside Terny, Soledar, Bakhmutske, Bakhmut, Ivanhrad, Pervomaisk, Opytne, Nevelske and Pobieda. Ukrainian aircraft launched more than 30 strikes, including 24 on areas of concentration of manpower, weapons and military equipment and nine on the enemy's anti-aircraft missile systems. In addition, Ukrainian air defense units shot down five UAVs. Ukraine's missile troops and artillery also hit two command posts, nine areas of concentration of manpower, weapons and military equipment, three ammunition depots and 11 other important objects. 