In Kherson, the occupiers evicted the residents of several dormitories to accommodate servicemen of the Russian-occupation forces who arrived to reinforce units on Kherson axis.

This is stated in the report of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine as of 06:00, September 30, published on  . As noted, the enemy continues to focus its efforts on fully occupying Donetsk region, holding the captured territories, disrupting the active actions of Ukraine’s Defense Forces in certain areas. The enemy shells the Ukrainian positions along the contact line, conducts aerial reconnaissance, attacks civilian infrastructure and civilian homes, violating international humanitarian law, laws and customs of war. Over the past day, the Russian occupiers launched five missile strikes and 11 airstrikes, more than 100 MLRS attacks on military and civilian objects throughout Ukraine. Nearly 50 settlements, including Slovyansk, Kramatorsk, Bakhmut, Dnipro, Kryvyi Rih, Mykolaiv, Nikopol, Voznesensk, Pavlivka, Visokopillia, Bilohirka, and Myrne, were affected by enemy strikes. In Volyn and Polissia directions, the situation has not changed significantly. At the same time, in the Republic of Belarus, the inspection of radio technical facilities of the airfield network began on September 21, which may indirectly indicate the possibility of using Belarusian airfields by the armed forces of the Russian Federation. There is still a threat of missile strikes and airstrikes from the territory and airspace of the Republic of Belarus. In other directions, the enemy opened fire from tanks, mortars, tube and rocket artillery, namely: In Siversky direction: in the areas of Senkivka and Sosnivka settlements of Chernihiv region and Novovasylivka and Pavlivka of Sumy region; In Slobozhansky direction: in the areas of Petropavlivka and Kurylivka settlements; In Kramatorsk direction: in the areas of Bohorodychne, Blakytni Ozera, Shchurove, Dibrova, and Ozerne settlements; In Bakhmut direction: in the areas of Verkhniokamyanske, Vyimka, Spirne, Vesele, Bilohorivka, Yakovlika, Soledar, Bakhmutske, Bakhmut, Odradivka, Zaytseve, Pivnichne, and Mayorsk settlements; In Avdiivka direction: in the areas of Tonenke, Avdiivka, Netaylove, Pervomayske, Opytne, Krasnohorivka, Marinka, and Novomykhailivka settlements. The enemy did not conduct active offensive actions in Novopavlivka and Zaporizhzhia directions. Shelling from tanks, mortars, tube and rocket artillery was recorded in the areas of Novopil, Prechystivka, Vuhledar, Pavlivka, Mykilske, Zaliznychne, Zeleny Hai, Dorozhnianka, and Novoukrayinka. In Southern Buh direction, more than 50 settlements along the contact line, including Arkhanhelske, Bilousove, Sukhyi Stavok, Shyroke, Bezimenne, Kvitneve, Ivanivka, Zoria, Olhyne, Lymany, Blahodatne, Pravdyne, Myrne, and Oleksandrivka, came under fire. The occupying power forces residents of the temporarily occupied territories to obtain citizenship and passports of the Russian Federation. According to updated data, the enemy losses have been confirmed in certain directions over the past few days, namely: In the village of Bakhmutivka, Luhansk region, more than 50 servicemen were eliminated and seventeen units of enemy equipment were destroyed; In Tokmak, Zaporizhzhia region, up to 50 Russian servicemen were wounded, and ten units of weapons and military equipment were destroyed; In Huliaypole district of Zaporizhzhia region, up to 40 enemy servicemen were wounded; In Melitopol, Zaporizhzhia region, a command post, S-300 anti-aircraft missile system were destroyed and more than 50 invaders were wounded. Over the past day, the Ukrainian troops repelled enemy attacks in the areas of Zaitseve, Mayorsk, Vesela Dolyna, Bakhmutske, Odradivka, Kurdiumivka, New York, Pervomaiske, and Bezimenne. To support the actions of the ground groups, the Air Force of the Defense Forces launched 29 strikes over the past day. Six enemy strongholds, twenty areas of the build-up of weapons and military equipment, as well as three anti-aircraft missile systems were hit. In addition, the Ukrainian air defense units shot down seven UAVs, including five Iranian drones, a Mi-8 helicopter, and a Su-25 attack aircraft. The missile and artillery units hit five command posts, 15 areas of the build-up of manpower, weapons and military equipment, six ammunition and fuel depots, one anti-aircraft missile system, and eight other important enemy facilities. ol 