During the current day, Saturday, September 17, the enemy has launched 4 missile strikes, 15 air strikes and more than 20 MLRS attacks on military and civilian facilities on the territory of Ukraine. The infrastructure of more than 30 settlements was damaged.

This is said in a   made by the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine on Facebook, Ukrinform reports. According to operational information, as of 18:00 on September 17, the enemy continues to focus its efforts on defense and holding control of captured territories, attempts to capture the entire Donetsk region, as well as disruption of active operations of the Ukrainian defense forces in certain areas. The Russian forces open fire at the Ukrainian positions along the contact line, take measures to regroup troops in certain directions, reinforce reserves and conduct aerial reconnaissance. It is noted that the Russian invaders are shelling the homes of civilians and civilian infrastructure facilities, violating the norms of International Humanitarian Law, the laws and customs of war. During the current day, the enemy launched four missile and 15 air strikes, used MLRS to launch more than 20 attacks on military and civilian facilities throughout the territory of Ukraine. The infrastructure of more than 30 settlements was affected, including in Kharkiv, Siversk, Druzhkivka, Kostiantynivka, New York, Maryinka, Krasnohorivka, Poltavka, Kryvyi Rih, Zaporizhzhia, Nikopol, Orikhiv, Myroliubivka, and Ochakiv. There is still a threat of air and missile strikes throughout the territory of Ukraine. The situation has not changed significantly in the Volyn and Polissia directions. In other directions, the enemy used tanks, mortars and artillery to shell settlements, namely: in the Siverskyi direction - Bleshnia of Chernihiv region and Khliborob and Kindrativka of Sumy region; in the Kharkiv direction, in particular, from the territory of the Russian Federation -  Kharkiv, Kudiivka, Hoptivka, Anyskyne, Dvorichna, Kupiansk, Senkove, Horokhovatka, Bakhtyn and Kamianka; in the Kramatorsk direction - Yaremivka, Sosnove, Yarova, Sviatohirsk, Shchurove, Staryi Karavan, Ozerne, Serebrianka, Raihorodok, Pyskunivka, Kryva Luka, Mykolaivka, Siversk, Verkhniokamianske, Spirne, Vesele and Hryhorivka; in the Bakhmut direction – Vyimka, Rozdolivka, Bilohorivka, Yakovlivka, Soledar, Bakhmutske, Bakhmut, Vesela Dolyna, Zaitseve, Odradivka, Mykolaivka Druga, Mayorsk, New York, Sukha Balka and Yuryivka. in the Avdiivka direction – Vesele, Avdiivka, Netaylove and Opytne. In the Novopavlivske, Zaporizhzhia, and Southern Buh directions, the enemy opened fire along the contact line. More than 50 settlements came under fire, including Zelene Pole, Poltavka, Novopil, Olhivske, Zaliznychne, Charivne, Stepova Dolyna, Tavriyske, Ternovi Pody and Bila Krynytsia. During the current day, units of the Ukrainian defense forces repelled enemy attacks in the areas of Bakhmut, Zaitseve, Pervomaiske, Mykolaivka Druha and Novomykhailivka. It is noted that the elimination of more than 180 invaders in Kherson has been confirmed. During the day, the Ukrainian Air Defense Forces struck ten areas of concentration of enemy manpower and equipment and three positions of anti-aircraft missile systems. Enemy losses are being clarified. As reported by Ukrinform, the Armed Forces of Ukraine eliminated about 54,250 Russian invaders from February 24 to September 17. iy 