Over the past day, Ukraine’s Defense Forces have repelled enemy attacks near the Kharkiv region’s Kupiansk and the Donetsk region’s Zaitseve and Novomykhailivka.

The relevant statement was made by the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine on  , an Ukrinform correspondent reports. During the day, the Ukrainian military struck 10 enemy personnel and military equipment clusters and two air defense system positions. The Ukrainian anti-aircraft defense units destroyed two Russian unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs). In addition, Ukraine’s missile an artillery units inflicted fire damage on four enemy command posts, two personnel and military equipment clusters, three air defense system positions, one artillery position and three ammunition depots. According to the General Staff, Russian troops continue attempts to fully seize the Donetsk region and hold the occupied areas, as well as disrupt Ukraine Army’s active actions in certain directions. In the Donetsk region, the enemy is continuously shelling the positions of Ukrainian forces along the contact line and conducting air reconnaissance. In the Volyn and Polissia directions, the situation remained rather unchanged. In other directions, Russian troops used tanks, mortars and artillery to open fire as follows: in the Siverskyi direction – near the Sumy region’s Shalyhyne, Myropilske, Volfyne and Yizdetske; in the Slobozhanskyi direction – near Hlyboke, Strilecha, Morokhovets, Vesele, Sotnytskyi Kozachok, Vovchansk, Hatyshche, Dvorichna, Husynka, Kamianka, Kupiansk, Srtilne, Osynove and Mikhuvatka; in the Kramatorsk direction – Bohorodychne, Yatskivka, Yarova, Tetianivka, Sviatohirsk, Pryshyb, Sloviansk, Platonivka, Donetske, Sydorove, Zakitne, Ozerne, Shchurove and Raihorodok; in the Bakhmut direction – Siversk, Spirne, Zvanivka, Mykolaivka, Rozdolivka, Soledar, Bakhmutske, Bakhmut, Vesela Dolyna, Odradivka, Vesele, Bilohorivka, Rozivka, Zaitseve, Yakovlivka, Maiorsk; in the Avdiivka direction – Krasnohorivka, Avdiivka, Opytne, Marinka, Vodiane and Novomykhailivka. In the Novopavlivka and Zaporizhzhia directions, the enemy did not take active actions but launched artillery strikes on such settlements as Mykilske, Vuhledar, Volodymyrivka, Prechystivka, Novoukrainka, Velyka Novosilka, Neskuchne, Vremivka, Pavlivka, Mala Tokmachka, Huliaipilske, Zaliznychne, Poltavka, Novopil and Novosilka. In the Southern Bug direction, over 37 settlements came under enemy fire. According to the General Staff, Russian troops continue striking civilian infrastructure and residential areas, causing terror against civilians. The threat of missile and air strikes is persisting all over Ukraine. Over the past day, Russian invaders have launched four missile strikes and 17 air strikes, and opened fire with multiple launch rocket systems (MLRS) over 24 times on military and civilian objects within the territory of Ukraine, violating international humanitarian law, the laws and customs of war. The enemy caused damage to infrastructure facilities across 30 settlements, such as Pryshyb, Spirne, Vesele, Marinka, Bakhmut, Kostiantynivka, Neskuchne, Poltavka, Yehorivka, Bezimenne, Bilohirka, Zaporizhzhia, Kryvyi Rih, Pervomaisk,  Mykolaiv, Ochakiv, Vysokopillia, Sukhyi Stavok and Myroliubivka. Russian invaders are strengthening the administrative and police regime within the temporarily occupied areas. In the city of Kherson, Russian occupiers are checking houses and putting psychological pressure on local residents, the General Staff added. A reminder that, between February 24, 2022 and September 23, 2022, Russia’s total combat losses in Ukraine reached about 56,060 troops. mk 