Russian invaders seized milk tanker trucks in territorial communities in the Mykolaiv region and are using them to covertly deliver fuel to the war zone.

The General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine said this in its morning  , Ukrinform reports. The enemy continues to focus its efforts on attempts to fully occupy the Donetsk region, organize defense and hold the captured territories and also tries to disrupt the active operations of the Ukrainian Defense Forces in certain directions. The enemy fires at Ukrainian positions along the contact line, taking measures to regroup troops, and constantly conducting aerial reconnaissance. Over the past 24 hours, the enemy has launched eight missile strikes and 16 air strikes and fired 115 anti-aircraft missiles at military and civilian targets across Ukraine, violating the norms of international humanitarian law, the laws and customs of warfare. The attacks of the Russian troops damaged infrastructure in more than 40 settlements, including Siversk, Marinka, Vesele, Neskuchne, Yehorivka, Bezimenne, Bilohirka, Myroliubivka, and Vysokopillia. Violation of the norms of international humanitarian law and customs of warfare remains the norm of behavior for Russian soldiers in the temporarily occupied territories. In the Svatove district, in order to hide the engineering equipment of the territories, the occupiers forcibly evicted the residents of Honcharivka and Kuzmenivka from their homes and took them deep into the temporarily occupied territory of the Luhansk region. Over the past 24 hours, Ukrainian units have repelled enemy attacks outside Zaitseve, Odradivka, and Novomykhailivka. To support the actions of the ground groups, the Ukrainian Air Force carried out 41 strikes on enemy positions. It was confirmed that 21 areas of concentration of manpower and military equipment of the enemy, four strongholds, and 15 positions of anti-aircraft missile systems had been destroyed. Ukrainian rocket troops and artillery struck 24 enemy targets in the past day, including four command posts of different levels, four areas of concentration of personnel, weapons and military equipment, and seven fuel and ammunition depots.  