The enemy continues to focus its efforts on attempts to occupy the entire Donetsk region, hold the captured territories, as well as disrupt the actions of Ukraine’s Defense Forces in certain directions.

That’s according to the of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Ukrinform reports. "The enemy is shelling the positions of our troops along the contact line, conducting aerial reconnaissance. They are striking civilian infrastructure and civilian households, violating the norms of International Humanitarian Law, laws and customs of warfare. There remains a threat of the enemy launching air and missile strikes across the entire territory of Ukraine," the morning update reads. Over the past 24 hours, the enemy has launched four missile and 16 air strikes, fired more than 75 MLRS salvos at military and civilian targets. In addition, the enemy has been using the Iranian-made Shahed-136 unmanned aerial vehicles for attacks on infrastructure facilities. In the past day, more than 30 settlements came under enemy fire, including Bilohorivka, Bakhmut, Krasnohorivka, Maryinka, Vodiane, Trudove, Bohoyavlenka, Novoukrainka, Orihiv, Zaliznychne, Illinka, Nikopol, Blahodativka, Mykolaiv, Ochakiv, and Odesa. In the Volyn and Polissia directions, the situation has seen no significant changes. In other directions, the enemy employed tanks, mortars, barrel and jet artillery: in the Seversky direction – in the areas of Seredyna Buda, Fotovyzh and Budka, Sumy region; in the Slobozhansk directiony – in the areas of Vovchansk and Hatyshche, Kharkiv region; in the Kramatorsk direction – Hryhorivka, Bilogorivka, Verkhnokamianske and Rozdolivka; in the Bakhmut direction – Soledar, Bakhmut, Bakhmutske, Odradivka, Opytne, Yakovlivka, Yuryivka, and Novoselivka; in the Avdiivka region - Avdiivka, Krasnohorivka, Opytne, Pervomaiske, Maryinka, Novomykhailivka, and Vodiane; in the Novopavlivka and Zaporizhia directions, the enemy inflicted fire damage in the areas of Novoukrainka, Paraskoviivka, Prechistivka, Pavlivka, Neskuchne, Shakhtarske, Velyka Novosilka, Novoandriivka, Zaliznychne, Hulyaipole, Hulyaipilske, Poltavka, Novopil, and Vremivka; in the South Buz direction – areas around 28 settlements near the contact line were shelled by Russian tanks, mortars, and barrel artillery. The enemy continues to suffer losses on Ukrainian soil as a result of the effective operations run by the Defense Forces. It has been confirmed that the ammunition depot was destroyed in a Ukrainian strike on September 30 in the area of ​​Chernihivka, Zaporizhia region, where nearly 50 Russian troops were injured. Partial mobilization, declared by Russia’s military and political leadership, is underway. Since September 30, enemy military units based on the temporarily occupied territory of Crimea have been put on "full" combat readiness, while measures are being taken to disperse personnel across the area. A motorized rifle division is being formed on the territory of the peninsula at the expense of the freshly called-up local male population, as well as those deployed from Russia’s Krasnodar Territory and Adygea. The arrival was noted of about 2,000 mobilized troops to the permanent deployment base of the 810th separate marines brigade in the city of Sevastopol. In Budyonovsk, Stavropol region, about 5,000 men arrived for mobilization in the 205th separate motorized rifle brigade of the 49th combined arms army of the Southern Military District. It is known that about 3,000 conscripts are stationed at the permanent deployment base, while the rest stay in a tent camp at the Nikolo-Olexandrivsky training ground. Combat training exercises have kicked off. Throughout the day, Ukraine’s Defense Forces repelled enemy attacks in the areas of Kozacha Lopan, Vyimka, Bakhmutske, Bakhmut, Vesela Dolyna, and Pervomaiske. In support of Ukraine’s ground groups, the Air Force carried out 29 strikes over the past 24 hours. It was confirmed that the enemy's stronghold, 22 military equipment clusters, as well as six enemy anti-aircraft missile systems were hit. In addition, Ukraine’s air defense units shot down two unmanned aerial vehicles. Missile troops and artillery hit eight Russian command posts and 10 manpower and equipment clusters. Three ammunition depots and two S-300 anti-aircraft missile launchers also came under Ukrainian fire. 