The Ukrainian Defense Forces have destroyed a Russian S-300 air defense missile system near the Zaporizhzhia region’s city of Tokmak.

The relevant statement was made by the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine on  , an Ukrinform correspondent reports. The enemy is trying to hold the temporarily occupied areas, focusing efforts on attempts to disrupt the Ukrainian Army’s active actions in certain directions, continues offensive actions in the Bakhmut direction and the Avdiivka direction. In certain areas, Russian troops are regrouping. Russian invaders are opening fire on Ukrainian positions all over the contact line, carrying out remote mining operations and conducting air reconnaissance. The enemy is launching strikes on civil infrastructure and residential areas, violating international humanitarian law, and the laws and customs of war. The threat of air and missile strikes is persisting all over Ukraine. On October 4, 2022, Russian occupiers launched nine missile strikes and six air strikes on Ukraine’s territory, and used multiple launch rocket systems (MLRS) over 56 times. Over 27 Ukrainian settlements came under enemy fire, including Kharkiv, Shypuvate, Kramatorsk, Bakhmut, Maiorsk, Huliaipole, Zaliznychne, Andriivka, Bilohirka, Voznesensk and Prydniprovske. In the Volyn and Polissia directions, the situation remained rather unchanged. In other directions, Russian troops opened fire as follows: in the Siverskyi direction – with cannon artillery, near such settlements as the Sumy region’s Pysarivka and Holyshivske; in the Slobozhanskyi direction – with tanks, mortars, cannon and rocket artillery, near Hraniv, Ohirtseve, Hatyshche, Vovchansk and Bilyi Kolodiaz; in the Kramatorsk direction – with mortars, cannon and rocket artillery, near Bilohorivka, Serebrianka and Spirne; in the Bakhmut direction – near Soledar, Bakhmut, Bakhmutske, Odradivka, Zaitseve, Opytne, Yakovlivka and Yurivka. In the Avdiivka, Novopavlivka and Zaporizhzhia directions, Russian troops used tanks, mortars, cannon and rocket artillery to open fire on over 24 settlements, including Avdiivka, Vodiane, Marinka, Novopil, Olhivske and Pervomaiske. In the Southern Bug direction, Russian invaders used tanks, mortars, cannon and rocket artillery to strike such settlements as Vyshchetarasivka, Dobra Nadiia, Illinka, Marhanets, Chervonohryhorivka, Nikopol, Pokrovske, Velyke Artakove, Andriivka, Stepova Dolyna, Bezimenne, Myrne, Luch, Shyroke, Bilohirka and Lozove. Over the past day, Ukrainian defenders have repelled enemy attacks near such settlements as Strilecha, Zelene, Maiorsk, Spirne, Zaitseve, Bakhmutske, Bakhmut, Kurdiumivka, Novomykhailivka and Vuhledar. When retreating from the Kherson region’s settlements, the enemy is planting mines within infrastructure objects and privately-owned premises, and preventing local residents from any movement. According to the available information, in the temporarily occupied Crimea, medical facilities in the city of Yevpatoria are facing a shortage of drugs to treat the injured occupiers. The enemy is facing provisioning issues with the so-called ‘partial mobilization’. In particular, the newly mobilized soldiers were sent back from Krasnodar Krai’s Molkino Training Center to Primorsko-Akhtarsk, as they could not be provided with accommodation, clothing and food. The Russian occupation authorities are trying to compensate for personnel losses with calling up local residents in the temporarily occupied areas of Ukraine. In particular, according to the available information, men from Luhansk, without conducting a medical commission and training, are mobilized and immediately sent to replenish the military units that suffered the highest losses. In the evening of October 3, 2022, Ukraine’s Defense Forces struck Russia’s pontoon and ferry crossings over the Dnieper in the Kherson region. The enemy’s final losses are yet to be checked. In addition, the Ukrainian military destroyed an enemy S-300 air defense missile system near the city of Tokmak. Enemy positions were also struck near the Zaporizhzhia region’s Huliaipole and Orikhiv. Over the past day, Ukrainian air forces have launched 17 strikes, hitting four enemy strong points, 11 military equipment and ammunition clusters, and two air defense missile systems. In different directions, the Ukrainian anti-aircraft defense units destroyed one Russian helicopter and two unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs). Ukraine’s missile and artillery units struck two Russian command posts, four personnel, ammunition and military equipment clusters, one air defense missile system, and the enemy’s bridge and pontoon crossing. mk 