The Armed Forces of Ukraine repelled enemy attacks near the settlements of Zaitseve, Mayorsk, Zalizne, Odradivka, Mykolaivka Druha, Ozerianivka, Pervomaiske, Pobieda, Novomykhailivka, Pavlivka, and Bezimenne.

The General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine said this in its latest   posted on Facebook, Ukrinform reports. According to the operational information as of 18:00 on September 28, the enemy continues to focus its efforts on establishing full control over Donetsk region, holding the temporarily captured territories, and attempts to disrupt the offensive of the Armed Forces of Ukraine in certain directions. In addition, the enemy shells the positions of Ukrainian forces along the contact line, conducts aerial reconnaissance. The Russian invaders strike the civilians infrastructure and civilian residential areas, violating the norms of International Humanitarian Law, the laws and customs of war. There is still a threat of airstrikes and missile strikes throughout the territory of Ukraine. During the current day, the Russian forces launched two missile attacks and three airstrikes, more than six MLRS attacks. As a result of enemy shelling, the infrastructure of more than eight settlements was damaged, including Siversk, Bilohorivka, Maryinka, Mykolaiv, Vyshchetarasivka, Ternovi Pody, Mirna and Novohryhorivka. In the Volyn and Polissia directions, the situation has not changed significantly. In other directions, the enemy used mortars, barrel and rocket artillery to shell settlements. In the Siversk direction, Senkivka settlement of Chernihiv region came under enemy attack. In the Slobozhanske direction, the invaders struck the areas near Strelecha, Sosnivka, Krasne and Hrushivka and Senkove settlements. In the Kramatorsk direction – Staryi Karavan, Sloviansk, Zakitne, Dibrova and Ozerne. In the Bakhmut direction - Spirne, Siversk, Serebrianka, New York, Andriivka, Soledar, Bakhmut, Bakhmutske, Odradivka, Zaitseve, Vesela Dolyna, Opytne, Yakovlivka, Mayorsk, Yuryivka, Bilohorivka, Vesele and Rozdolivka;. In the Avdiivka direction - Avdiivka, Opytne, Vodiane, Pervomaiske, Tonenke, Krasnohorivka, Karlivka, Maryinka, Yelizavetovka, Novomykhailivka, Paraskoviivka and Heorhiivka. In the Novopavlivka direction - Pavlivka, Mykilske, Vuhledar, Volodymyrivka, Yehorivka, Prechystivka, Zolota Nyva, Shevchenko, Novoukrainka, Velyka Novosilka, Neskuchne and Vremivka. In the Zaporizhzhia direction, the enemy shelled more than 20 settlements, including Stepove, Pavlivka, Novopil, Orikhiv, Temyrivka, Olhivske and Huliaipole. In the Southern Buh direction, the Russian forces struck more than 30 settlements along the contact line, including Nikopol. The enemy UAVs made more than 40 sorties in order to carry out reconnaissance, adjust fire, and launch strikes on civilian infrastructure During the current day, units of the Ukrainian defense forces repelled enemy attacks near the settlements of Zaitseve, Mayorsk, Zalizne, Odradivka, Mykolaivka Druga, Ozerianivka, Pervomaiske, Pobieda, Novomykhailivka, Pavlivka, and Bezimenne. To support the actions of the ground groups, the Air Defense Forces struck two enemy strongholds during the day. Also, missile and artillery troops hit a command post, four areas of concentration of enemy manpower and equipment, and a relay station. As Ukrinform reported, the Armed Forces of Ukraine eliminated 58,150 Russian invaders between February 24 and September 28. iy 