In Mariupol, temporarily occupied by the Russian military, the self-proclaimed "authorities" began a complex operation to strengthen the regime. The first arrests of active city residents have been reported.

"The occupation authorities launched a complex operation to strengthen the regime. There is a rapid increase in city patrols as part of the commandant's office, the Russian military, and the police of the occupiers. Mobile checkpoints. Mass checks of men's documents... The first arrests are being reported. In particular, the author of the video showing the riot of the residents was identified and arrested (practically, thrown to a basement)," Petro Andriushchenko, adviser to Mariupol mayor, posted on  . At the same time, bots are massively spreading information on social media sites about the start of mobilization in the city. According to his sources, the mayor's adviser determined the set of goals pursued by the invaders: fight against social discontent and social riots by creating an atmosphere of fear; identification and forced mobilization of residents of Donetsk and other cities occupied until 2022 who are seeking refuge en masse in Mariupol city and district; accustoming Mariupol residents to the idea of ​​the inevitability of mobilization, the start of which, according to Pushilin's [“DPR” leader] instructions should begin at the beginning of October; and the strengthening of counter-partisan measures. As reported, Mariupol suffered one of the biggest humanitarian disasters caused by Russia's aggression. The city was almost completely destroyed by Russian shelling. Enterprises, utility infrastructure, schools, kindergartens, hospitals, residential buildings were ruined or damaged. The Russian invaders declared collaborator Kostiantyn Ivashchenko the "mayor" of Mariupol and created a picture of "restoration of the life in the city." The residents oppose the "authorities" by distributing stickers and leaflets with Ukrainian symbols around the city. On the Independence Day of Ukraine, August 24, the resistance movement raised the Flag of Ukraine. ol 