To win the war, Ukraine needs weapons, finances and sanctions against Russia.

Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal said this in an interview with  , Ukrinform reports. He said that today the whole world sees Ukraine's military successes in the northern regions of the country, in the Kharkiv region, as well as successful operations in the Kherson region. "We will continue to do this, we have no other choice. For us, victory in this war is a matter of the existence of our people," Shmyhal said. He added that solidarity reigns in Ukraine: politicians, society, and volunteers have united around the future victory in this war. He said that 101 countries had voted to give Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky an opportunity to speak at the 77th session of the UN General Assembly, and only seven countries - Russia's allies - were against it. "This shows how the world has united and supports Ukraine in this war, because this war affects the whole world," Shmyhal said. He said that Ukraine needs three elements to win the war: weapons, finances and sanctions against Russia. "Weapons will allow us to continue a successful counteroffensive with the support of our friends. But we also need sanctions because Russia gets enough money from the sale of oil and gas. We need more effective sanctions so that Russia has less money for terrorist activities," he said. He emphasized that Ukraine also asks its partners to recognize Russia as a terrorist state, because what the Russians are doing in Ukraine is "genocide, acts of terror at all levels." "We saw Bucha, the situation in Izium is the same. Mass burials, bombings, they kill civilians - women, children, bomb civilian targets, in particular the Zaporizhzhia NPP," Shmyhal said. He said that the whole world fears that the situation around the Zaporizhzhia NPP may worsen, because Russia is systematically terrorizing nuclear facilities in Ukraine by shelling nuclear power plants. First, the Russians captured the Chornobyl NPP, later they captured and bombed the Zaporizhzhia NPP. "A few days ago, they started bombing the South Ukrainian NPP. Russia's actions can lead to a nuclear disaster," Shmyhal said. He said that Ukraine is ready for negotiations with Russia, but the Russians must leave the Ukrainian territories recognized by international treaties as of 1991. Shmyhal noted that Kyiv is also asking the international community to provide guarantees for Ukraine's international security, as Russia will continue to be Ukraine's neighbor and similar actions can be expected from it in the future. Russia has been waging a full-scale war against Ukraine since February 24. 