The situation in the South Buh operational zone remains consistently difficult, albeit controlled by Ukraine’s forces.

This was announced on Facebook by Operational Command  , Ukrinform reports. "The enemy is running defensive operations with the aim of holding captured ground in Kherson and Mykolaiv regions, trying to hinder the development of our offensive," the statement reads. Throughout the day, the enemy had three combat engagements with Ukraine’s forces. An attempt of an assault toward Zelenyi Hai - Ternovi Pody by a motorized rifle platoon with the mortar, tank, and IFV support was repelled so the enemy was forced to retreat, having suffered losses. An effort by the sabotage and reconnaissance group and the attack on Ukrainian positions by another motorized rifle platoon supported by a tank and IFV were also unsuccessful. The Russians retreated, having sustained major casualties. Russian MLR systems, barrel artillery, and mortars inflicted fire damage along the line of combat, on territorial communities nearby, as well as on rear areas, settlements, and critical infrastructure targets. In order to locate the position of the Ukrainian troops and spot artillery fire, the enemy continued to actively employ unmanned aerial vehicles. During the day, six reconnaissance-type Orlan-10s and a Mahajer-6 were downed in the Beryslav and Mykolaiv districts. The enemy continued to terrorize the southern regions by launching kamikaze drones. After daytime attacks on Mykolaiv region, three Shahed-136 targeted Odesa region in the afternoon. All were shot down by Ukraine’s air defense. During the day, the Nikopol district was once again shelled by MLR systems. Damage was inflicted to a number of buildings across two territorial communities but no casualties were reported. The Russian Su-35 aircraft hit the Bereznehuvata community of Mykolaiv region twice, launching Kh-31 air-to-surface missiles. Farmland plots were affected but no one was injured. At the same time, Ukraine’s Air Force inflicted seven strikes on enemy strongholds, manpower and equipment clusters in the Beryslav district and on their air defense positions in Kakhovka district. Jet and barrel artillery completed 347 fire missions. The enemy death toll in the southern areas over the past day amounted to 105. Also, Ukraine’s forces destroyed eight main battle tanks, 18 Msta-S and Msta-B large-caliber howitzers, a Pion self-propelled gun, another 152mm howitzer, four mortars, 15 armored combat vehicles, and three ammunition depots in the Bashtanka and Beryslav districts. Another six units of enemy equipment, including tanks, an armored combat vehicle, a howitzer, and an electronic warfare station, were significantly damaged. As Ukrinform reported, the overall Russian military death toll since invasion-start stands at nearly 61,330. 