Over the past day, the Armed Forces of Ukraine eliminated 43 Russian soldiers, 13 equipment units, and five ammunition depots in Southern Buh direction.

"The situation in the operational zone in Southern Buh direction is still difficult but controlled. The enemy is looking for various options in attempts to oppose our active actions. Near Arkhanhelske, a sabotage and reconnaissance group of up to 10 people tried to check the strength of our positions. As a result of the battle, the invaders suffered losses and retreated. Along the line of potential advance of our units, the enemy places anti-personnel and anti-tank mines," the Operational Command "South"  . In order to ensure the possibility of redeploying reserves and supplies, including from the temporarily occupied Crimea, the Russians do not stop trying to build new crossings, in particular in Kakhovka direction. A reconnaissance drone was destroyed in Beryslav district, Kherson region. In Mykolaiv region, the air defense forces stopped downed yet another Shahed-136 kamikaze drone There was no destruction or casualties. "The soldiers of the anti-aircraft missile brigade shot down a Russian Su-25 attack aircraft in Beryslav district, Kherson region. To rescue their pilot, the occupiers sent a Mi-8 helicopter which was also successfully destroyed by our anti-aircraft gunners," the Ukrainian military said. The aviation of the Armed Forces of Ukraine launched nine strikes on the enemy, and the missile and artillery units performed 310 fire missions. The areas of enemy weapons and equipment build-up in Beryslav district were hit, fire control of the Antonivka Bridge was strengthened, and the use of alternative traffic at the crossing in the area of ​​Nova Kakhovka was made impossible. The confirmed losses of the Russians are: 43 soldiers, three tanks, a self-propelled howitzer, and nine armored vehicles. In addition, five ammunition depots were destroyed: in Bezimenne, Ternovi Pody, Kalynivka, and on the Kinburn Spit. As reported, the Ukrainian defenders eliminated about 56,700 Russian soldiers from February 24 to September 25. ol 