In a phone call with Prime Minister of Denmark Mette Frederiksen, President Volodymyr Zelensky has discussed the Kremlin's decision on the attempted illegal annexation of the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine.

The Head of State said this in a Facebook  , Ukrinform reports.   “During the conversation with Prime Minister of Denmark Mette Frederiksen we discussed bilateral defense cooperation in detail. We mainly focused on the Kremlin's decision on the attempted illegal annexation of the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine,” he wrote. Denmark's assistance in accelerating Ukraine's movement towards the EU and NATO was also discussed, Zelensky wrote. According to the president’s  , Zelensky expressed gratitude to Denmark and personally to the head of the government for the effective defense, financial and humanitarian support of Ukraine from the very beginning of the full-scale invasion of Russia. The importance of the fact that Denmark does not recognize and categorically rejected the pseudo-referendums held by Russia in the occupied territories of Ukraine was noted. The Head of State said that the Ukrainian side is counting on the strengthening of EU sanctions and the speedy approval of the eighth package of sanctions, which should be much stronger than the previous ones. Zelensky also called on Denmark to recognize Russia as a terrorist state. In addition, the interlocutors focused on issues of Europe's energy security. Zelensky congratulated Frederiksen on the official opening of the Baltic Pipe gas pipeline, which became an important event in building security, strengthening the energy independence of the entire region and opening up additional opportunities for Ukraine. The recent incidents with the Nord Stream pipelines were also discussed. The leaders separately focused on the issue of reconstruction of Ukraine. Zelensky thanked Denmark for the decision to join the restoration of infrastructure facilities in Mykolaiv region. The President invited Denmark to actively participate in the implementation of the Ukraine Fast Recovery Plan. As reported, President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelensky discussed further support for Ukraine in a phone conversation with Prime Minister of Japan Fumio Kishida. iy 