In the south, the missile and artillery units of the Ukrainian defense forces performed 133 fire missions last night, destroying an ammunition depot in the Kherson district and a depot and command post in the Beryslav district of Kherson region.

The Operational Command South  this on Facebook, according to Ukrinform. In particular, the Ukrainian forces inflicted fire damage on crossings in the area of Nova Kakhovka, areas of concentration of personnel and equipment, and enemy's air defense systems. In the morning, the Ukrainian defenders discovered an enemy subversive group and prevented its passage to the rear of the units of the Ukrainian defense forces in the Novovorontsovka community. According to the Operational Command South, preliminary confirmed enemy losses included eight personnel, four units of automobile equipment and an unmanned aerial vehicle. As of today, the situation in the Southern Buh operational zone remains tense, but under control. The Ukrainian defense forces continue to inflict fire damage on the enemy's reserves, take measures to disrupt its command system and logistical support. In particular, according to the command, bridges and crossings across the Dnipro River are under "accurate and effective" fire control of the Ukrainian defense forces. At the same time, units of the invading forces concentrate their main efforts on holding the captured territories and restraining the offensive operations of the Ukrainian defense forces. The enemy continues to carry out aerial reconnaissance, shell Ukrainian positions and rear territories. Last night the Russian troops attacked the positions of the Ukrainian defense forces and civilian infrastructure with barrel and rocket artillery. In particular, the invaders struck the Mykolaiv district of Mykolaiv region using the S-300 anti-aircraft missile system. The Russians hit Mykolaiv with four S-300 guided missiles, damaging residential buildings and administrative buildings. The enemy hit the town of Ochakiv with five S-300 missiles. The port infrastructure was struck. No civilian casualties were reported. In Dnipropetrovsk region, the enemy fired more than 170 shells from Grad MLRS and barrel artillery at three communities of the Nikopol district - Chervonohryhorivka, Nikopol and Marhanets. In Nikopol, residential houses and a power substation were damaged. In Marhanets, power lines were also damaged. In the Chervonohryhorivka community, enemy shells damaged private houses, shops, a kindergarten, a dispensary, cars, a pharmacy, a club, a stadium, and a gas station. iy 