Over the past day, the Ukrainian defenders repelled enemy attacks near 13 settlements, the Air Force of the Defense Forces launched 33 strikes on the invaders.

This is stated in the report of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine as of 06:00, September 26, published on Facebook. "The enemy continues to focus its efforts on attempts to fully occupy Donetsk region and hold the captured territories, as well as disrupt the active actions of the Defense Forces in certain directions. The invaders fire on the positions of our troops along the contact line, try to retake lost positions in certain directions, conduct aerial reconnaissance, launch strikes on civilian infrastructure and residential buildings, violating the norms of international humanitarian law, the laws and customs of war. There is a threat of air and missile strikes on the entire territory of Ukraine," the report reads. Over the past 24 hours, the enemy launched five missile strikes and 12 airstrikes, more than 83 MLRS attacks. Also, the enemy used four combat UAVs to attack civilian infrastructure objects. More than 40 settlements came under enemy fire. These are, in particular, Kupyansk, Kramatorsk, Bakhmut, Krasnohorivka, Marinka, Kamyanka, Kurakhove, Pavlivka, Zaporizhzhia, Nikopol, Ochakiv, Mykolaiv, and Odesa. The situation in Volyn and Polissia directions has not changed significantly. In other directions, the occupiers opened fire from tanks, mortars, and tube artillery: In Siversky direction: near Oleksandrivka settlement of Sumy region; In Slobozhansky direction: near the settlements of Strelecha, Odnorobivka, Veterynarne, Hatyshche, Kamyanka, Holubivka, Senkove; In Kramatorsk direction: Novoselivka, Shchurove, Siversk, Hryhorivka, Bilohorivka, Zakitne, Dibrova, Verkhniokamyanske, Vesele, Rozdolivka, Ozerne and Spirne; In Bakhmut direction: Soledar, Bakhmut, Bakhmutske, Odradivka, Zaytseve, Klishchivka, Vesela Dolyna, Yakovlivka, Mayorsk, Nelipovka, Vyimka, and Bilohorivka; In Avdiivka direction: Avdiivka, Opytne, Pervomaiske, Novomykhailivka, Paraskoviivka; In Novopavlivka and Zaporizhzhia directions: 18 settlements were shelled with tanks, mortars, and tube artillery, including Yehorivka, Pavlivka, Zaliznychne, Novoandriivka, Huliaypilske, Huliaypole, Uspenivka, Novosilka, Vremivka, and Chervone; In Southern Buh direction: more than 27 settlements near the contact line came under artillery and mortar fire. The General Staff notes that partial mobilization is ongoing in the Russian Federation. The enemy also takes similar measures in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine. On September 24, the training of mobilized personnel began in Sevastopol at the base of the automobile battalion of the Black Sea Fleet. In the town of Svatove, Luhansk region, mobilization summonses are handed out to persons who have reached the age of 18. Truck drivers are immediately sent to military units. At the same time, the Russians are trying to hold the announced illegal "referendum" in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine. Thus, in populated settlements of Zaporizhzhia region, representatives of the occupation authorities, accompanied by armed Russian soldiers, come to apartments, forcing local residents to participate in the so-called "referendum" and identifying men at the same time. The same measures are taken in Luhansk region. According to the General Staff data, the occupiers continue to suffer losses. Another accurate strike on enemy equipment build-up in Kherson was confirmed on September 24. According to preliminary data, the enemy lost up to 10 units of military equipment; the personnel losses are being clarified. Over the past day, the Ukrainian troops repelled enemy attacks near the settlements of Spirne, Soledar, Mayorsk, Bakhmut, Pidhorodne, Vyimka, Kurdiumivka, Zaitseve, Novomykhailivka, Pervomayske, Kamyanka, Pobieda, and Pavlivka. The aviation of the Defense Forces launched 33 strikes. It was confirmed that 25 areas of enemy manpower and military equipment build-up and eight positions of anti-aircraft missile systems were hit. In addition, the air defense units destroyed Su-25 aircraft, Mi-8 helicopter, and two enemy UAVs. "Missile troops and artillery hit six command posts, 12 areas of enemy manpower and military equipment build-up, two positions of anti-aircraft missile systems, three missile troops and artillery units, six ammunition depots, as well as other nine important targets," the General Staff summed up. ol 