Over the past day, units of the Defense Forces of Ukraine repelled enemy attacks outside the settlements of Vyimka, Maiorsk, Spirne, Ozerianivka, Bakhmutske, Kamianka and Ternovi Pody.

The General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine said this in its  , Ukrinform reports. The enemy is trying to hold the temporarily captured territories, concentrating its efforts on attempts to disrupt the operations of the Defense Forces in certain directions. The enemy is shelling the positions of Ukrainian troops along the contact line, conducting aerial reconnaissance. The enemy attacks civilian infrastructure and civilian homes, violating international humanitarian law, laws and customs of war. There remains the threat of the enemy launching air and missile strikes on targets across Ukraine. Over the past day, the occupiers launched three rocket strikes and 12 air strikes, using multiple rocket launchers more than 100 times. More than 20 settlements were affected by enemy strikes, including Bilohorivka, Zaitseve, Mariinka and Bakhmut. In the Volyn and Polissia directions, the situation has not changed significantly. In other directions, the enemy used tanks and artillery systems of various types. In the Kharkiv region, enemy attacks were recorded outside the settlements of Strilecha and Dvorichna. In the Kramatorsk direction, the enemy attacked Ukrainian positions near Bilohorivka, Verkhniokamianske, and Serebrianka. The enemy also mined the routes of the possible advance of Ukrainian units. On the Bakhmut axis, enemy attacks were recorded outside the settlements of Soledar, Bakhmut, Maiorsk, Zaitseve, and Yakovlivka. In the Avdiivka direction, the enemy shelled Ukrainian positions outside Avdiivka, Marinka, Novoukrainka, Novomykhailivka, and Sukha Balka. In the Novopavlivka and Zaporizhzhia directions, the enemy shelled areas of more than 20 settlements along the contact line using tanks, mortars, and field artillery. Among them are Novoyakovlivka, Huliaipilske, Novosilka, Novopil, Zaliznychne and Bohoiavlenka. In the Southern Bug direction, the enemy shelled more than 25 settlements along the contact line were. According to available information, units of Russia's newly formed 3rd Army Corps that were moved into Ukraine are unable to effectively perform their tasks. Obsolete and unusable weapons and military equipment, arbitrary abandonment of positions and refusal to perform combat tasks by personnel, consumption of alcoholic beverages, systematic violations of military discipline are the main reasons for the demoralization of servicemen of enemy units. In the city of Tver, due to the lack of teaching staff and technical specialists who are involved in the war in Ukraine, training in certain courses has been suspended at the military academy of air and space defense. According to available information, the military leadership of the Russian armed forces made a decision to move to the area of hostilities the units of the Russian Guard troops based in the administrative boundaries of the Siberian Military District and the contingent of Russian troops in Syria. Ukrainian aircraft carried out 22 strikes on enemy positions in the past day. They struck three enemy strongholds, 16 areas of concentration of weapons and military equipment, as well as three anti-aircraft missile systems. In addition, Ukrainian air defense units destroyed two enemy UAVs. Over the past day, rocket troops and artillery hit two Russian control points, 12 areas of concentration of manpower, weapons and military equipment, two ammunition depots, an air defense facility, as well as five other important enemy facilities. 