Ukraine’s Army has repelled enemy attacks in the areas of Petropavlivka, Vyimka, Bakhmutske, Zaitseve, Opytne, Odradivka, Nevelske, and Novomykhailivka.

That’s according to the latest update released by the  of the Armed Forces, Ukrinform reports. “The Russians continue to focus their efforts on attempts to fully occupy Donetsk region and hold captured ground, as well as disrupt the actions of Ukraine’s Defense Forces in certain areas. They fired at the Ukrainian positions along the contact line and conducted aerial reconnaissance, trying to restore lost ground in certain directions,” the report reads. The enemy continues to cynically attack civilian infrastructure and civilian homes, the General Staff noted, adding that the threat of air and missile strikes across the entire territory of Ukraine remains in place. The occupiers carried out five missile and 12 air strikes, also launching more than nine MLRS attacks on military and civilian targets, violating the norms of International Humanitarian Law, laws and customs of war. More than 20 settlements were affected by enemy fire, including Bakhmut, Mykolayivka, Kalynivka, Mykolayiv, Sukhy Stavok, Pivdenne, and Mali Shcherbaky. The situation in the Volyn and Polissya directions has not changed significantly. In other directions, the enemy inflicted fire damage, employing tanks, mortars, and barrel artillery: in the Siversky direction - in the areas of Huta-Studenetska and Mykhailove of Chernihiv region and Pavlivka, Stukalivka, Seredyna-Buda, Myropilske, Krasnopillya, Mezenivka and Slavhorod of Sumy region; in the Slobozhansk direction - in the areas of Hoptivka, Strilecha, Ivashky, Oleksandrivka, Podoly, Kupyansk, and Horokhuvatka; in the Kramatorsk direction –Pryshyb, Yarova, Ozerne, Dibrova, Raihorodok, and Siversk; in the Bakhmut direction –Soledar, Bakhmut, Bakhmutske, Vesela Dolyna, Odradivka, Zaitseve, Yakovlivka, New York, Verkhnyokamianske, Bilohorivka, and Rozdolivka; in the Avdiivka direction - Avdiivka, Berdychi, Pervomaiske, Karlivka, Vodyane, Maryinka, and Novomykhailivka. More than 25 settlements were shelled in the Novopavlivka and Zaporizhia directions. Among them are Vuhledar, Novoukrainka, Novosilka, Novopil, Bilohirya, Orihiv, Temyrivka, and Vremivka. More than 40 settlements along the contact line were fired upon in the South Buh direction. In order to carry out reconnaissance missions, spot fire, and launch strikes on civilian infrastructure, the enemy UAVs made more than 60 sorties. Partial mobilization measures are ongoing on the territory of the Russian Federation. Due to the low motivation of Russian citizens to participate in hostilities on Ukrainian soil, military draft officers kicked off door-to-door rounds with immediate delivery of summonses to men of conscription age in populated areas of the Krasnodar Territory immediately after the mobilization decree came into force. Police checkpoints are set up on the main roads to control the movement of the male population. Mobilized personnel, after short stints in training centers, are set to be deployed to replenish military units that had suffered massive losses in Ukraine. To support the actions of the land groupings, the Air Force carried out 19 strikes. It was confirmed that 14 manpower and military equipment clusters and 5 positions of anti-aircraft missile systems were engaged. In addition, Ukraine’s air defense units destroyed four warplanes (a Su-25, two Su-30, and a Su-34), five UAVs, and a cruise missile. Missile troops and artillery hit four command and control points, more than 10 manpower and equipment clusters, three air defense positions, and four ammunition depots. Enemy losses are being verified. 