During the day, the Russian troops launched five missile strikes, 11 airstrikes, 17 MLRS attacks on military and civilian objects in the territory of Ukraine. As a result of the strikes, the infrastructure of more than 30 Ukrainian settlements was damaged.

"During the day, the Russian troops launched five missile strikes, 11 airstrikes, 17 MLRS attacks on military and civilian objects in the territory of Ukraine, violating the norms of international humanitarian law, the laws and customs of war. As a result of the attacks of the Russian troops, the infrastructure of more than 30 settlements was damaged. Among them are Kharkiv, Slovyansk, Pechenihy, Pokrovsk, Poltavka, Bilohorivka, Nevelske, Marinka, Myroliubivka, and Vysokopillia. There is still a threat of enemy air and missile strikes on the entire territory of Ukraine," the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine posted on  . As noted, the situation in Volyn and Polissia directions has not changed. In other directions, the enemy opened fire from tanks, mortars, and artillery. In particular, in Siversky direction – in the areas of Zaliznyi Mist and Huta-Studenetska settlements of Chernihiv region and Manukhivka, Bachivsk, Boyaro-Lezhachi, Volfyne, Holyshivske and Turya of Sumy region. In Slobozhansky direction – in the areas of Hrushivka, Kupyansk, Veterynarne, Hoptivka and Hlyboke settlements. In Kramatorsk direction – Yarova, Studenok, Tetianivka, Bohorodychne, Raihorodok, Zakitne, and Ozerne. In Bakhmut direction – Soledar, Bakhmutske, Rozdolivka, Klishchivka, Krasnopolivka, Zvanivka, Yuryivka, and New York. In Avdiivka direction – Avdiivka, Krasnohorivka, Opytne, Marinka, Vodiane, and Pervomaiske. In Novopavlivka and Zaporizhzhia directions, tanks, mortars, and tube artillery were fired on about 25 settlements, including Vuhledar, Zolota Nyva, Huliaypole, Rivnopillia, and Zelene Pole. In addition, it is reported that more than 35 settlements along the contact line came under fire in Southern Buh direction. To conduct reconnaissance and adjust fire, the enemy made more than 60 UAV sorties. At least six unmanned aerial vehicles were used to strike civilian infrastructure. ol 