President Volodymyr Zelensky said that he is ready to allow Russia to supply ammonia via Ukraine if the Russian Federation releases Ukrainian prisoners of war.

Zelensky made the statement in an interview with  , an Ukrinform correspondent reports. "In a choice between dignity and money, I choose dignity. I wouldn’t want to trade with the Russian Federation, and I wouldn’t like anyone to trade and get Russian ammonia, I’ll tell you frankly... I will be really frank with you - I said that I would be against ammonia supplies from the Russian Federation via Ukraine. I’m willing to go for it only if we exchange the supply of ammonia for our prisoners. I proposed this to the UN," the president said. Answering the question of what steps he would like to be taken by the participants in the UN General Assembly session regarding the war with the Russian Federation, Zelensky opined that certain discussions among the leaders would continue there, that certain documents would be adopted, and that "the prime minister, the minister of foreign affairs... they know their job." "I think it is important to raise two points as high as possible on the agenda among the leaders and achieve a result. The first is still to find the right mechanism, and to support the resolution regarding it, for asset return, refunds from the occupiers, etc. We really need this mechanism but it doesn’t exist yet," Zelensky said. Another step he called the resolution on the creation of a special tribunal for war crimes and those who committed these crimes. "Separately in the USA, it is necessary, probably at the level of the UN platform, to also discuss the issue of recognizing the Russian Federation as a state sponsor of terrorism. This is also a very important step," he said. Among other important issues relevant to Ukraine, the president mentioned the budget deficit, the significant need to resolve certain issues with the IMF, and the need to agree on a new cooperation program. According to Zelensky, "we have started this work." "The USA and the UN are a good platform to this end as well. So there are many things to focus on," he clarified. As reported, reports emerged in the Western media claiming that the UN is putting pressure on Ukraine and the Russian Federation in order to restore the operation of the Tolyatti-Odesa pipeline for further export of ammonia via the Black Sea as part of the "grain initiative." For his part, the head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Dmytro Kuleba, said that Ukraine will learn the details of the UN initiative to restore the operation of the Tolyatti-Odesa ammonia pipeline and that it will make no decision that would be against the country’s interests. 